What started out as just a relief rally
is starting to become something real.
Institutional risk sentiment has
improved so much that people are willing
to put money to work. The risk in stocks
are a little higher today uh than they
were in April. All the negative things
which could happen have dissipated you
know at least for the time being. Does
it really make sense for equities to be
hitting new record highs? I think so. I
think that is a pain trade. This is
Bloomberg surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and An Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, the policy volatility
continues. Senate Republicans pulling an
allnighter looking for votes on a major
tax bill as President Donald Trump faces
off with Elon Musk over EV subsidies.
And the European Union is preparing to
accept a universal 10% tariff. It's
goodbye Q2. Hello Q3. It's a new
quarter. It's the same story. It's the
same story of policy uncertainty that
seems to be the presiding sentiment and
the presiding theme over 2025. We will
get clarity in two weeks. That is always
what happens. Maybe it's going to be two
months. The real question I have is how
much have the changes in valuations
reset the game? And I'm talking about
the dollar that just had its worst half
since 1973. I'm talking about stocks
that continue to grind higher with
people still saying the pain trade is up
given the fact that this policy
uncertainty has still not fully been
priced in or internalized. The president
of the United States taking on Elon Musk
taking on Chairman Pal and taking on
Republican hold out staying up all night
in the Senate. There's a number of
holdouts right now and this is what you
see Senate Majority Leader John Thoon
basically going in and out of his office
with different individuals trying to see
if he can get them to yes. This is a
long slog. He continues to say we're
close, but he's been saying we're close
for the past 5 hours or so, so we're not
just that close yet. There's two people
I'm watching. One, Senator Ron Paul.
Everyone thinks that he's a no, but
potentially if they bring the debt
sealing money down to lift the debt
ceiling from 5 trillion to something
more like 500 billion, he might be able
to go for a yes. And then Senator
Marowski from Alaska, she wants to see a
carveout for her state when it comes to
Medicaid. If they're able to get
acceptable language for the
parliamentarian and get a yes on that,
she could be a yes to the final bill. He
needs one of these two and these are the
two I'm watching this morning. Tyler
Kendall down in Capitol Hill. Tyler is
going to join us in just a moment. Also
monitoring what's happening in foreign
exchange. Lisa talked about the weakness
on the US dollar. Need to talk about the
strength for the euro. Euro dollar 11815
and earlier on this morning waking up to
just a little bit of push back from the
ECB saying that if the level gets above
120 that becomes a problem. Below that
it's okay. Well, we're getting toward
that. We've had eight straight sessions
of we uh strengthening of the euro
versus the dollar. If today is the ninth
that is going to be the longest streak
going back to 2004s. Uh Luis Duendos was
the one who came out and really pushed
back against this. At the same time, it
potentially lowers their inflation. It
just also lowers the impulse to tour
over to Europe. So, I wonder how much
this is a tourism issue rather than
simply uh just a currency appreciation
and exports and trade and all of that.
The disinflation rate, we'll get into it
later. Euro dollar18 13. That's the
price action of this morning. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Judian
Emanuel of Evercore as stocks post the
best quarter in more than a year. We'll
speak to the former NEC deputy director
Everett Eisenad as the White House says
trade deals are looming. and Eric Nelson
of Wells Fargo on the dollar's weakest
start to the year in half a century. We
begin this hour with our top story. An
all night voting session underway on
Capitol Hill as the Senate debates
President Trump's tax bill. Joining us
now is Tyler Kendall from Washington
with the latest. Good morning Tyler.
Yeah. Hey John, good morning to you, but
probably not a good morning if you are a
US senator because they have been in the
middle of this voterama since 900 a.m.
Eastern yesterday because Senate
Majority Leader John Thun still does not
have the votes to pass this package. And
importantly, at the moment, he's trying
to work out some of these key deals to
get Republicans on board because they
are broadly aligned when it comes to the
key pillars of this package, like the
tax cuts, but they remain really divided
when it comes to those spending cuts.
And we're still watching the same eight
hold out Republicans that we've been
discussing uh for really the past few
weeks, and they haven't seem to give any
indication that they are going to budge.
There are two threads that we're
watching here in Washington that I'd
point you to that could kind of tell us
where this morning could be headed. One
is that we're seeing the White House
really ramp up the pressure here. An
administration official tells us that
President Trump is in constant contact
with lawmakers on the Hill. We're trying
to track down exactly which lawmakers
he's calling and what sort of deals the
White House could be offering to get
their votes over the finish line. The
second I'd point you to is that there's
still two key amendments that senators
have yet to vote on that could change
the trajectory of this legislation. One
is an amendment that would roll back the
expansion of Medicaid under the
Affordable Care Act. It's likely not to
pass, but that is considered to be a win
for fiscal hawks that were pushing for
this to come up to debate. A second
amendment though does appear to be on
track with some more momentum behind it
because it has Democratic support and
that would be a more lenient timeline
for the phase out of some of those clean
energy tax credits including solar and
wind. John, that really could be one of
the pivotal pieces in this puzzle to get
enough moderates on board for John Thoon
to get it over the finish line. Excited.
We need to talk about Elon Musk as well.
They're stuck between a rock and a hard
place. They've got a decision to make.
Do they choose to upset one of the
biggest donors to their party or do they
choose to upset the president of the
United States?
One of the biggest donors to the party.
Exactly. He gave more than $290 million
during the 2024 cycle, not just to the
White House, but also to those down
ballot races. And we're really starting
to see the money pour in already. Take
Thomas Massie for example, a Republican
from Kentucky who is a hard no on this
bill on the House side. President Trump
has already created a super PAC to
primary him in Kentucky. Really making
good on his threat to uh put up a
challenge ahead of that race. But then
we got confirmation from Elon Musk
yesterday that he has poured money into
the race in favor of Thomas Massie. So
they really are on a collision path at
this point. But if they do uh go against
President Trump, perhaps Elon Musk could
be there to give some extra funds. Tyler
Kendall with the latest in Washington.
Tyler, stay close. More from Tyler
through the air as the voting continues
in Washington DC tracking the latest
move in Tesla in the pre-market down by
4.5%.
Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Julian Emanuel of Everor saying
it's not yet the time to pile in writing
the following. A pullback is our base
case given the parabolic move already
and the risk from tariffs and policy to
the economy. Judian joins us now for
more. Jillian, good morning. Good
morning. Should we take a beat? How's it
feel the last quarter? What was that
like for you?
Look, incredible in in many respects
though, the market actually did what it
was supposed to do. Okay, you had this
incredible surprise reaction to
something where we were completely not
used to what we were seeing, which was a
tariff schedule uh you know, higher than
Smoot Holly. And then you got what you
actually didn't get at the bottom in
October of 2022, a volatility event, an
actual capitulation that really
presented uh the buying opportunity very
very clearly. Um and and from our point
of view, the surprise is the unrelenting
speed with which the market continues
the advance. Massive move, 20% plus off
the lows on the S&P, 30% something like
that on the NASDAQ 100. I sit here and I
wonder looking out 12 months now. Can
you say with confidence the outlook for
earnings is getting better or worse at
this point? It's it's definitely getting
better. Okay. Because basically what has
happened is you've had uh this
adjustment from tariffs and now that
there is this presumption that you are
going to get and we can talk about the
effect on interest rates later or what
have you that you're going to get some
form of stimulus that is going to be uh
more favorable to the 2026 picture.
Obviously, the 2025 picture remains in
flux and we're going to find that out in
a couple of weeks when earning seasons
start. Uh but in general, the whole
narrative of the economy having avoided
a recession is is a reasonably positive
backdrop. Let's put the one big
beautiful bill on the side for one
second and just go to the tariffs which
you mentioned are still at the highest
going back to the 1930s and haven't
fully been priced in yet when it comes
to whether it's consumer prices, whether
it's companies absorbing it in the
profit margins. What makes you think
this isn't going to show up in earnings
in a material hit to profit margins for
a significant number of companies? Well,
so the the work that we've done was the
expectation that roughly it'd be a 5050
split. uh you know larger companies will
will shoulder less, smaller companies
will will shoulder more uh of of the
tariff hit. Um and and yes, it
definitely will uh fall in into
earnings. But again, there is this
presumption that it is the one-time hit
and that there will be this transition
period which obviously for the market uh
began in the spring. Uh but we're
already sort of pricing through that and
and again what it points to is the the
re resilience of corporate America, the
ability to adapt, the ability to move
supply chains, and the ability to figure
out what a correct pricing strategy is.
Are we putting an economic narrative to
a market story to something that really
is big tech names that continue to
innovate and a techn technological boom
that is trickling out into other
companies at the same time that there
are these independent factors that are
very real that are affecting other asset
classes. And we talked about the dollar
that might be where some of the
vigilantes are going or this question of
where the marginal buyer is going to be,
how the market responds to negative news
uh in the economy. How much are we
making an economic argument for
something that is now increasingly
divorced from the economy? Well, again,
stepping back the the story of this year
and in large part for our from our point
of view, the reason that the advance off
the April bottom has been as unrelenting
as it's been is because we are now
finding that corporate America is
understanding how to use AI
constructively across all industries,
not just for cost saves, but for revenue
enhancement well as well. And this is
something that we think is going to
continue to proliferate and when you
think about it is part of the reason
look we're uncomfortable with where
multiples are which is why we think that
you're likely to have a pullback but on
balance it is something that supports
you know higher multiples x anti uh than
what we've seen a pullback when though
because you talk about a fomodriven
meltup. What if you missed that?
So
look, it could be going on right now,
but from our point of view, there's
enough policy uncertainty out there that
I would equate this more to the the sort
of FOMO that we had in and around the
election. Remember, a lot of froth
there, uh, you know, led by cryptonames,
led by names that were tied into the
Trump administration. And I think we're
seeing a lot of the same thing now. But
again, the actual activity supporting a
more prolonged uh period of FOMO hasn't
materialized yet. We do think you need
to get, you know, less policy
uncertainty to get to that period. What
uncertainty unnerves you the most? Lisa
mentioned tariffs. Right now, we have
this debate on the one big beautiful
bill, but no one thinks it's not going
to pass. It just might be an absolute
slog and it's probably not going to come
on July 4th. What's the uncertainty that
makes you nervous to really want to add
more to your exposure? So, I I I think
it's a what the response is going to be
in and around July the 9th. That that's
the you know, the tariff story. But
again, this other idea that that you
know, we're seeing the resilience on the
corporate earnings front. But if you go
back to last Friday, it was really the
first indication with the inflation
numbers higher than expected and and the
income and spending numbers weaker than
expected, GDP revised down that yes, in
fact, this theorized pass through from
tariffs might actually in fact be
hitting. What's the best outcome for
July 9th? Asked this question yesterday.
Is it extended, pretend, keep
negotiating, or 10% and move on? What's
the best outcome for you? I think it's I
think well you'd like certainty. I mean
if you just went to 10 and said that's
it that would be fine. The the market
would embrace that but uh something
leads me to believe that it isn't quite
going to be that simple in negotiation.
You're not alone by the way and I think
this is interesting that the market is
just sort of happy and I think was happy
several months ago with the idea of a
10% universal tariff. Move on to other
things. Then companies can actually
price it in. They can rearrange the
supply chains. And uh like Julian said,
the adapt and adjust which you see in so
many different companies is what we've
already seen with respect to half being
absorbed by them, a little being
absorbed by them, and maybe just a small
marginal onetime price increase. And to
your point, Jonathan, the market was
happy. I was there. It was rallying when
the president got up in the Rose Garden
and said, "Here's a 10% across the board
tariff." It only started to crater when
they came out with the massive billboard
of the of reciprocal tariff rates that
were extortion for some countries.
Anchored us all to the extreme and now
we're happy with 10%. And apparently
even the EU is now happy with the 10%
universal tariff with carveouts in
fairness and sure whatever but we that's
not what we're going to get because we
also have sectoral tariffs and you've
got countries that are waiting for the
232 investigations to continue.
countries aren't arguing about the 10%
universal tariff. They're not even
debating it with the US at all. Which
goes the question of if you anchor to
the extreme, is that the way to get
people to all accept something that
would have been extreme. It's a massive
U-turn to when I was in the Netherlands
last week and they said they would not
accept a 10% across the board tariff.
Now a week later, okay, fine, we'll
accept 10%, but we need some help on
steel and autos. Ole Crow is going to
join us a little bit later in the
program to get you the latest from
Europe. Big changes on the trade front
still expected. Equity futures at the
moment down by two ten of 1% on the S&P
with an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara
Anard. Hey yhara. Hi John. Senate
Republican leaders continue scrambling
for votes to pass President Trump's $3.3
trillion tax and spending bill. They've
been up all night and as you can see in
the live picture behind me are
continuing to vote on amendments to the
legislation amid deep party divisions
over clean energy and Medicaid cuts.
Eight Republicans are holding out their
votes on the bill. Meanwhile, the
European Union is willing to accept
President Trump's 10% universal tariff.
As you guys were just talking about,
sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the EU wants the US to commit to lower
rates on key sectors such as
pharmaceuticals, alcohol,
semiconductors, and commercial aircraft.
The block has until July 9th to reach a
deal before tariffs on nearly all of its
exports to the US jump to 50%.
And President Trump is continuing to
attack Fed chair Jay Powell posting on
Truth Social yesterday. Jerome Tulle
Powell and his entire board should be
ashamed of themselves for allowing this
to happen to the US. If they were doing
their job properly, our country would be
saving trillions of dollars in interest
costs. He says we should be paying 1%
interest. Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara later
on in the hour. Handwritten note with
all the interest rates around the world.
The United States at the wrong end of it
for him. So just to go back to your
point, is this anchoring to the extreme?
Like forget one point, two point, we'll
take three. Maybe if we get two, it's
okay, you know, but you know, let's
start with 1% interest rates. Julian's
going to stick with us. We'll have more
on fixed income and interest rates and
what it means for the equity market in
just a moment. Up next on the program,
the voterama continues.
I'm confident that the the bill is going
to progress a as is over the next few
hours and it'll be on the the
president's desk to sign on July 4th.
We're all on the same page on how to
grow the economy while controlling and
bringing down expenses. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning to
you all. Equity futures negative on the
S&P following backtoback all-time highs.
[Music]
Later on this morning, 9:30 Eastern
time, a mustwatch panel. Check this out.
ECB President Christine Lagard, the
chairman of the Federal Reserve, JPAL,
the BOJ governor, and a whole lot more.
Coming to you live from Cra Portugal,
the world's biggest central bankers, the
biggest names on the planet in finance,
their views on interest rates, and
what's happening with this economy
following the policy shock of the last
few months. In the markets right now,
market couldn't care less. Equity
futures just a little lower, down 210 of
1%, alltime highs on the S&P at the
close of yesterday's session. at the
close of Q2 coming into Q3 on a
three-day winning streak in the bond
market. Yields down last month down on
the quarter on twos on tens on the
10-year right now 41949.
We're down another three basis points
even with the focus on Washington DC and
a big tax bill just moments away. Under
surveillance this morning, the voterama
continues.
I'm confident that the the bill is going
to progress a as is over the next few
hours and it'll be on the the
president's desk to sign on July 4th. So
Senate Senate will vote, pass it over to
the House. We've seen incredible
leadership and this is what leadership
looks like. We're all on the same page
on how to grow the economy while
controlling and bringing down expenses.
Here's the latest this morning. Senate
Republicans pulling an allnighter
looking for votes on the big beautiful
bill. In the bond market, no change in
the face of all of this. Julian Emanuel
of EverOR joins us now for more. Julian,
let's continue this conversation. We
aren't seeing the push back from fixed
income. We aren't seeing the high yields
that so many people anticipate. In fact,
yields are starting to break the other
way. What's the relationship between
your outlook for the equity market and
what's been happening in fixed income?
No, it is definitely a mystery. There's
no question about it. And and it almost
makes you wonder as if there might be a
time where let's say this this bill
passes and then we wake up and yields
start moving higher by you know a
reasonably significant amount. But at
the end of the day if you look at it the
yields have been going sideways for two
years. Okay literally somewhere between
four and four and a half for two whole
years. And frankly, that's perfectly
fine for the equity market because
again, that removes part of the
uncertainty. Well, okay, they've said
the same, but the backdrop has been very
different economically. People went from
a very high benchmark interest rate
understanding of the world that was high
inflation to one that now if you put all
of the other potential tariffs and other
disruptions out of the picture, we would
be looking at pretty much close to 2%
inflation rate. We're looking at
basically mission accomplished. So, is
this highlighting a new premium that
will ultimately challenge US valuations
and risk markets in a way that has not
fully been appreciated? Well, there's
there's certainly an element to that.
However, the the counterveil to that is
that we are likely to get a new Fed
chairman uh sometime next year that is
going to be, let's say, uh a little bit
more accommodating in terms of bringing
interest rates down. Let's say that they
are accommodating and taking Sharpie
messages uh of the world's interest
rates and saying okay we'll cut three
percentage points in this meeting
regardless of what happens. What happens
to the long end in that situation? you
will get a yield curve steepening the
likes of which most uh investors do not
remember that 20 years ago and and so on
twos 10 was more in the neighborhood of
150 over rather than 50 over a very
rapid steepening and frankly when we
think about what the risks to the equity
market are 10-year yields going through
5% far and away at this point are the
most significant risk when can that
happen?
Uh again, it it just the psychology
right now is telling you it doesn't seem
likely, you know, because as as John
pointed out, uh you know, counter to
expectations and really the same way the
dollar weakness is counter the to the
expectations of people that thought
tariffs would be bullish to the dollar.
um it really just takes a turnaround in
psychology um that we don't see but I
would suggest that if the inflation data
continues to firm at the same time we
get more sort of push back on the
direction of tariffs that's the mix that
sends the dollar move I think Julian
speaks to exactly the risk you describe
just go through the scenario you face a
situation where you do get a Fed share
that's let's say is more willing to drop
interest rates regardless of what's
happening elsewhere. You get the curve
steepening you describe. You get all the
debt issued at the front end with the
Federal Reserve cutting interest rates.
You know, that's precisely one of the
reasons you're seeing the dollar
strength that's been developing, Lisa,
over the last several months. What is
the fear that this is going to be a Fed
that's going to try to monetize the
debt, that's going to try to essentially
print money to offset this by having
rates at a very low level and then just
printing money at that level. And how
much does it take at this point to
create dollar strength given that that
fear has been embedded in the overall
investor base? Isn't the president
actually arguing for that right now over
the last several months? Almost
explicitly saying that he wants the
Federal Reserve to drop interest rates
so they can issue debt at the front end
and get lower interest rates. He's
saying there is a direct connection
between the Fed's rate policy and what
the US pays in interest payments. And
then Scott Bessing came out and said,
"Yeah, we're not going to term out the
debt. are going to focus in the front
end because right now the term premium
is just too great. So you put those
together and that is to your point
explicit explicitly calling for the Fed
to help the country lower its uh
interest payments. In the Sharpie, black
and white, you have cost the USA a
fortune and continue to do so. He's
talking about the net interest we are
paying on our debt which has basically
toppled the entire US budget higher than
defense spending. Quick final word,
dollar weakness. How much of a tailwind
is that for the S&P 500? It's definitely
been significant and it has definitely
contributed among other reasons for
large cap outperformance o over small
cap. In general, it tends to be a
positive, but again, there's always sort
of I until it isn't. uh and and I would
suggest and and it's not our base case
that there are going to be issues around
getting this bill passed but if we start
getting towards August and again not our
base case sure uh that is where you run
into problems there's so many reasons
for dollar weakness which I think makes
the pain trade of Q3 dollar strength
that's got to be the pain trade of Q3
dollar strength who's position for that
I couldn't agree more I was thinking
people say that there's going to be a
stimulative effect would agree argue
with this from the one big Beautiful
bill. Let's say that plays in with
better than expected earnings and
economic data. What does the dollar do?
Jillian, it's good to see you, sir.
Thanks for dropping by. Julian Emanuel
there of Evercore as we kick off the
second half of 2025. Up next, the former
NEC deputy director Everra Eisenstat as
the EU comes to the table for trade
talks. Plus, your movers with Danny
Burgerer. The latest on Tesla.
[Music]
Welcome to the second half live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Your scores look like this. Eg futures
negative by 210 of 1% on the S&P
following backto back all-time highs on
a benchmark in the United States. We're
coming into Q3 on a 3-day winning streak
on the NASDAQ 100 after a major rally
off the lows of April. We're down just
0.3%.
With 3 hours until the opening bout,
let's get you some morning movers.
Here's Danny Burgerer with the latest.
Hey Danny. Hey John. A painful
pre-market session for Tesla already
down four and a third percent. It seems
that the social media spat between Elon
Musk and President Trump having its
ramification on these shares. The latest
of which after Elon Musk slammed that
spending bill, President Trump on Truth
Social, seemingly threatening to take
away subsidies from Elon Musk's
companies. Hence the decline we are
seeing this morning. To the upside
though, the large casino operators that
is Las Vegas Sands win. Both of them
really strong up more and nearly 3 and
a.5% for the two of these. We got latest
Macau numbers for those gambling
revenues up 19% for the month of June
year-over-year. The estimate was just 9%
and for both of these companies about
half of the revenue comes from Macau. So
that's lifting the shares this morning.
Finally wrapping things up with Robin
Hood after already a 13% gain in the
regular session yesterday. We're looking
at another 3% this morning. Robin Hood
announced yesterday that it's going to
be tokenizing US company shares, which
means that if you're in 30 countries,
you can trade these shares 24 hours a
day for 5 days out of the week. So,
congrats. If you already can't sleep at
night, you can also now trade equities,
John. Yeah, Danny. I hate it. Absolutely
hate it. Danny, thank you. 24-hour
trading. The 24/7 stuff kills me. Well,
I think it kills. Needs to stop. Needs
to be a close, right? Need a weekend.
Well, it's good that it's actually
pretty calm trading, so it's not
necessarily like anything is going to
happen if you go to sleep. That's what
we learned in the past half. Crypto bros
just can't get enough of it, can they?
They can't. They're up 30% on the uh
Bitcoin this quarter. So, you know, good
for them. I need a break. On a radar
this morning, Senate Republicans working
through the night to iron out divisions
over President Trump's $3.3 trillion tax
bill. Senators expected to vote through
the morning with eight major holdouts
remaining. We're almost at 24 hours
here. When it comes to these amendments,
there are really two individuals I'm
watching right now. potentially Ron
Paul, someone who owes a no. If they are
able to lower the threshold for how much
they're willing to spend to lift the
debt ceiling, maybe he gets on board.
And then Senator Lisa Marowski, they're
working on language, especially get a
carve out for Alaska when it comes to
Medicaid. We are seeing that Vice
President JD Vans has walked into the
capital. He would only be there if a
vote is closed because he needs to
obviously be one of those votes because
they cannot lose anyone else because
they the margins are so so tight. So
that says to me potentially we are on
the cusp of Majority Leader Thun getting
one of those holdouts on board and then
JD Vans can come for the final tie
break. There's a bit of tension in the
room at the moment, but the most
interesting feud I think is taking place
beyond Capitol Hill. It's a feud between
President Donald Trump and Elon Musk
reigniting basically over EV subsidies.
The president saying Musk may get more
subsidy than any human being in history
after Mus slammed Trump's tax bill for
cutting EV credits. Yeah. And then he
went in on the fact that he's from South
Africa, not a true American, and then
talked about no more rocket launches,
satellites, or electric car production,
and our country would save a fortune.
Perhaps we should have Doge take a good
hard look at this. Big money to be
saved. Raises a question of a has this
feud actually ended because we saw a
sort of uncomfortable resolution to it,
but then also how vulnerable Tesla
really is. And I think that the company
specific story is actually more
fascinating than anything else. There
was a belief that Elon Musk's closeness
to the president was going to help
Tesla. The reversal of that is drawing
into questions, calling into question
the entire regulatory framework for robo
taxes and beyond. That really had given
a lot of support to these shares. I
totally agree. The stock is down by more
than 4%. What's interesting though is
the policy they're arguing over is a
policy they campaigned on campaigned on
for months. This was the policy we all
expected and this is the point that
President Trump put out there. You and I
disagreed on that before and I was very
vocal that I did not want this policy.
This is also splitting a lot of
Republicans on Capitol Hill and that is
part of the debate that is in the bill.
How much is this stimulative to
economies that are in red states uh in a
way that they don't want to roll back so
quickly given that there is this
emphasis on trying to create jobs. The
president of the United States has been
super busy over the last 24 hours.
That's for sure. Talking about needing
sleep and stuff. That guy's not
sleeping. ramping up the pressure on Fed
chair Jay Pal yesterday, writing a
letter urging the central bank to cut
rates by a lot. Trump then posting
Powell and the FOMC should be ashamed
for costing the US a fortune.
Handwritten letter. So basically they're
pen pals. Now what I found so
interesting is part of that letter he
says look here Japan, Denmark,
Switzerland, Seel. He's like look at the
rest of the world. They're cutting
rates. Why are we not cutting rates? But
this comes back to what both of what we
were just discussing a few minutes ago.
The president has been very explicit. He
wants the rate cut because we are paying
too much on our debt. And for the first
time, we've seen when we pay our net
interest on our debt. It is bigger than
the US national defense budget. And he's
looking at that and he's saying, "Where
can we try to trim? Why are we spending
so much money on our debt? If he just
doesn't if he cuts the rates,
potentially this is where we could save
some money." And he's, according to the
president, he thinks inflation's over.
If you're relying on short-term funding,
great. You might get those lower rates.
If you're relying on long-term funding,
long-term interest rates, oh, you might
have a problem. If they start cutting
interest rates in response to this,
Lisa, we've been talking about this
dynamic for months now. If you see a
repeat of what we saw at the back end of
last year, you bring the front end down
and you see the long end go the other
way, try getting a mortgage. Well, and I
would add to that it would be even worse
because if people perceive that
inflation isn't necessarily dead and
that this isn't the prudent economic
policy, but it's being done for
political questions uh political
reasons, then all of a sudden you have a
framework where people don't want to buy
US assets that's lost that credibility.
Julian Emanuel said that the biggest
risk case for equities was uh the
10-year going above 5%. And that is what
he expects to possibly be on the table
in that type of scenario. Tenure this
morning, 419 and down another four basis
points as we speak. Let's get to some
better news for the president. The
European Union coming to terms with a
10% universal tariff from the United
States. Sourc is telling us here at
Bloomberg that officials are willing to
accept a deal but with key exemptions.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
Ollie Kirk. Ollie, what are the key
exemptions and why the turnaround from
the EU? Yeah, and I think it's a little
bit surprising to John that, you know, 8
days before the deadline is the moment
at which the EU has sort of realized
that this 10% is not going to move. That
seemed pretty clear from the outset.
What they would like to see are some
exemptions and quotas to bring the
effective rate down on auto tariffs and
steel tariffs and aluminum tariffs.
Remember those are at about 50% auto
tariffs at about 25. They'd like to have
some workarounds around that. That'll be
pushed very hard by the Germans. But
what they would also like to do is get
some clarity on the sectoral tariffs.
For them, it's like they're negotiating
blind, right? If you are going to
negotiate a trade deal and then a couple
months later you're going to get hit in
the pharma sector, uh the airline
industry and the chips. And these are
the three main sectors that the
Europeans are most concerned about. then
what good is a deal going to be? So that
is really what they're going to be
pushing in the last few days that this
is going to happen. Of course, we
remember what happened with Canada and
the digital tax and that sort of got
turned around. There are a number of
European countries that have digital
taxes. Is that something that's going to
come into the frey? So we're really in
crunch time for these negotiations about
8 g days to go until that July the 9th
deadline. And of course, we don't know
if the Trump administration is going to
come with more afterwards. That's really
the scenario that European policy makers
would like to avoid. Hollywood with the
latest. Appreciate the report. It's
Oliver Crook there out of London this
morning. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Everett Eisenste, the
former National Economic Council deputy
director. Everett, welcome back to the
program. What is your base case for July
9th? Extend and pretend, move on, and
drop 10% on everyone. Which one? Well, I
think we're going to see a little bit of
everything. Uh, I believe there will be
an extension of of the of the tariff uh
deadline will be pushed back for some
countries. I think we'll have some
frameworks announced. But one of the
interesting points that was just made
that I don't think should be
underestimated is the fact that the
European Union agreed to that 10%
baseline just as the UK did, the United
Kingdom. And as you recall, a month ago
or so that was not even on the table for
the European Union. So countries are
steadily recognizing that they need to
adapt to the president's priorities and
making that being pragmatic. They're
accepting that and trying to move
forward with things that really matter
to them. ever. Five days ago, I was in
Europe and they were talking about how
they would not accept a 10% universal
baseline tariff. So, so what are they
getting for for accepting this? It's a
mixed bag. If you think of for many of
these economies, they just want this to
go away and get some kind of
predictability. Um, what a lot of the
industries are worried about or what's
coming down the road. And you've got
these sectoral negotiation, these
sectoral tariffs that might come into
place under section 232, national
security investigations. We already have
very high tariffs on autos and steel uh
and aluminum and we know more are
coming. Pharmaceuticals, you had some of
them up there on the on the big board.
Pharmaceuticals, um semiconductors,
copper, timber, many many important
components to manufacturing and they
could be fairly disruptive to supply
chains for a country, you know, for an
economy like the European Union, Germany
for, you know, and some of these big uh
manufacturing, knowing where they're
going to be in those sectors is very
important. So, I think they're willing
to accept that 10% baseline, but they
need to see and are hoping to see some
flexibility in those sectoral tariffs.
Let's talk about two you mentioned when
it comes to autos, 25% um and then 50%
when it comes to steel. How much lower
do you think the United States is
willing to go? Not I don't think we're
going to see an overall reduction for
any on the writ large across the board
on say you know 55%. It may come down
some. I think what we're more likely to
see are flexibilities built into that
number. For example, if you take the
United States, UK framework, United
Kingdom framework agreement, there's
room in there to negotiate quotas. And
that's not too dissimilar than what
happened during the first administration
where there was a 232 tariff and then
countries got some relief through
quotas, uh, exemptions for certain
products. So I think it it will be more
of a a Swiss cheese approach where you
have the hole there, but there's going
to be pockets of flexibility built
within it. Everett, how confusing do you
think it is for some of the trade
partners that the 232 investigations
into national security reasons for
tariffs hasn't been completed yet. Those
investigations are still underway and it
is unclear what exactly they will
establish. How much is that factoring
into these negotiations as well? It's
such an interesting dynamic because
generally in these negotiations, you
know what you're negotiating. You know
what the table looks like. Um, and what
they're negotiating for now is basically
one to avoid retaliation and a tit for
tat trade war, which is a good thing
because that could be very destructive
to the economies. But they're also
negotiating to have a seat at the table
when those 232 investigations conclude.
And you're right, it is very
disconcerting for them to be in a
position for countries to be in a
position to negotiate on something that
you don't know what the remedies are
going to be. So you can talk about
generalities, you can talk about, you
know, what that you want to be there,
you want to help shape it, but until you
know exactly what it looks like, it
makes it very very difficult. You don't
really know what you're negotiating.
Everett, thank you, sir. the former
deputy NEC director Everra is now which
speaks to the reason why they're so
willing just to accept the 10% because
as you pointed out Lisa there's other
things to negotiate and right now it's
at least it's not 25% or 40% or 80% or
they just get a letter like the Penguins
this is trade on July 9th the Penguins
get a letter as well I assume that
they're not negotiating okay all right I
imagine they're not coming to the table
but who knows these days okay who knows
July 4th is another self-imposed
deadline for taxes we've been tracking
events all night in the Senate Tyler
Kendall has more on the nation's
capital. Tyler, what's the latest?
Yeah. Hey, John. Well, we can confirm
that Vice President JD Vance is now on
Capitol Hill. He of course would be that
critical tiebreaker vote if it comes to
that. Uh we should say, of course, worth
reminding on the map, Republicans can
only afford to lose three uh three
votes. And right now, there's likely two
nos, which means that Senate Majority
Leader John Thun is working overtime at
the moment to try to get enough
Republicans on board. So, we could
potentially be gearing up for a vote
soon. However, I would point out and
heed some caution that we've yet to get
votes on some critical amendments that
could really change the trajectory of
this bill, including one amendment that
would have a more lenient timeline when
it comes to the phase out of clean
energy tax credits like solar and wind.
So, that needs to happen for us first
before we get to any finalized vote on
formal passage. And quickly, I would add
that we're talking a lot about what the
Senate isn't doing, but I would point
out something that they did do, which is
strip out a provision to prevent states
from regulating artificial intelligence.
I bring it out because uh we know that
companies like Meta and Microsoft were
lobbying for this and no doubt they're
unhappy with the outcome this morning.
Tyler, thank you. Tyler Kendall with the
latest down in Washington DC. We'll have
more from Tyler in the next hour. We're
getting close. I think we're getting
close. Tyler makes a very good point
though. We are waiting for this
amendment from Joanie Ernst and what
she's talking about there is when it
comes to renewable projects and this is
a big deal under the current version of
the bill qualifying projects have to be
in service by the end of 2027 what they
want to do in this bill and this would
be very much mood music to the likes of
Elon Musk and his cohort when it comes
to renewables they want to say okay get
shovels in the ground by the end of 2027
you could still get access to these
subsidies and funds not that the project
h has to be in the works that is a very
big difference making some slow progress
down in Washington DC. Let's get the
latest on news elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara for more. Hey Yahara. Hi
John. President Trump has threatened to
proceed with higher tariffs on Japan,
citing their unwillingness to accept US
rice imports despite a shortage. Trump
wrote on Truth Social, "We'll just be
sending them a letter." The comments
come a little more than a week before
the July 9th deadline for higher tariffs
on dozens of US trading partners.
Meanwhile, Apple is considering using
technology from anthropic or open AI to
power a new version of Siri. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the company
would sideline its own in-house models
in a move aimed at turning around its
lagging AI efforts. And Boeing CFO Brian
West is stepping down. West helped
orchestrate one of the biggest capital
raises in US history last year. To
steady the plane maker, he will leave in
mid August and be replaced by former
Lockheed executive Mark J. Malave.
Boeing says West will remain an adviser
to CEO Kelly Orberg. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John Yara, thank you.
More from Yihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, the push
back begins.
We should try to avoid any sort of
overshooting.
uh is much more you know the the speed
of the of the adjustment than the level
but I think that 117 even 120 we can
overlook a little bit something beyond
beyond that 120 is okay on Euro dollar
anything above that the ECB raising a
flag this morning we'll have that
conversation up next with Eric Nelson of
Wells Fargo live from New York you're
watching Bloomberg today.
[Music]
3-day winning streak on the S&P as we
enter Q3. Equity futures kicking off the
second half just a touch softer down by
two ten of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ
we're down by 310 of 1% some fireworks
in foreign exchange under surveillance
this morning the push back begins.
We should try to avoid any sort of
overshooting
uh is much more you know the the speed
of the of the adjustment than the level.
But I think that 117 even 120 we can
overlook a little bit something beyond
beyond that. This is something that we
are monitoring that you know we are
looking at but we do not target any
concrete level of of exchange rate. So
here's the latest this morning. The
first sign of ECB officials pushing back
against euro strength after the US
dollar posted its worst first half
performance since 1973. Eric Nelson of
Wells Fargo suggests there might be more
to come. Writing, we expect a more
significant slowdown in the US economy
later in Q3 and into Q4, which should
drive the next leg lower in dollar
short-term rates. Eric joins us now for
more. Eric, good morning. Morning. What
do you make of that push back coming
from Europe this morning? Well, I I
think there's it's not really a function
of what Europe is doing. Uh it's very
much a US rates move, right? So, we're
now down 30 40 bips in between
short-term long-term US rates and that's
really what's driving it. So, can the
ECB do anything about it? I mean, they
could always cut rates. That's always
the easy solution. Uh but right now most
of the kind of center of the committee
and you know certainly people like
Isabel Schnabble are interested in in in
doing no such thing. What does it tell
you that they're worried about the
currency already? What does that tell
you about the backdrop for inflation in
the Euro zone? Well, yeah, it's it's
already quite weak. We just we just had
some some preliminary numbers from
Germany and it looks like we're going to
be continuing to drift maybe even a
little bit below 2% on kind of a
short-term basis. So that certainly got
some of the Dubs worried understandably.
So, it's also still, let's be honest,
still very much an export partly more
more export-driven than most of its
peers. So, it's it's a problem for
growth. There are people who heard what
you just said and said, "Wow, that's
radical." You just said it's interest
rate differentials that have been
driving dollar weakness. Is that really
true or is it the loss of US
exceptionalism, the concerns about
monetizing debt? This idea of the
failure of the dollar to hedge against
any potential losses in US assets? Well,
I think those things are all very I
don't want to downplay them, but if you
just I think when you look at what
happened in April and May, that was in
complete divergence from what was
happening with rates and I think part of
that was expectations around growth,
right? So, we had spent the first the
last three four months of the year last
year and the first month of of this year
focusing on US exceptionalism, right? It
was US growth upgrades in a straight
line versus peers and since then it's
been a straight line the other way,
especially during April and May.
liberation today is really what drove
those US growth expectations lower. And
part of that also fed into people
selling dollar assets, hedge ratios and
so on. But now just in the last month
and a half, the rates have taken back
the baton. That said, economists love a
good horror story and the horror story
is United States falling off a cliff and
the economy uh falling on the tanker and
the rest of the world taking over and
then people take a look at the actual
information under the hood and it
doesn't look like that. What if you get
a positive surprise in the United States
at the same time that Europe is facing
some structural problems and potentially
a hit from tariffs and by by the way a
hit from the currency appreciation.
How lopsided is positioning right now
for that type of thing. To John's point,
the pain trade being the dollar
stronger. Yeah, I think I think it
depends on which pair you're looking at.
So I think where people have been kind
of hiding out is in yen. So people have
been very much long the Japanese yen.
Positioning in euro is not quite as
extreme. So I think that gives, you
know, a little bit of credence, maybe
not immediately continuing the trend,
but into the second half of the year,
it's not quite so crowded. Um, but I
think it's it's important to keep in
mind as well, you know, John at the
outset mentioned we're pretty bearish on
the dollar versus the euro and so on. In
the very short term here, we've got, you
know, US short-term rates around 3% on
like a one-year one-year forward rate.
You're pricing in a pretty significant
slowdown. So this week's data is really
important to determine is that happening
or is it more of a slow grind towards
softness? Are you surprised that
Europe's capitulating on the 10%?
Uh, I think they're in a difficult spot.
I think everyone is is starting to to
kind of um, you know, move more more
that direction. Some some maybe more
than others. I mean, I think the part of
the issue here for Europe is that
there's a lot of, you know, people, a
lot of cooks in the kitchen, so to
speak, right? And I think they want to
avoid the worst case scenario of just
complete collapse, 50% tariff that Trump
has talked about. I think when push
comes to shove and they actually come to
a point where they're putting ink on on
the paper, I'm not so sure that they're
going to be as willing, you know, across
the board to accept that. They're going
to have to take a lot of quotas, I
think, and things like that. There's
going to be exceptions. There's going to
be carveouts likely when it comes to if
they're willing to accept a 10% base.
What's the reaction from the currency
the second Trump comes out and does this
announcement? Well, I think you it's
it's a little bit of a different
proposition now than it was back in
April because growth expectations look a
little bit closer to, you know,
realistic. Um, so there may be a little
bit more push back on the Euro strength
if you do get a really nasty tariff
announcement. Um, but I think the bias
here is this is generally viewed as US
economic self-destruction on the tariff
side. So I think any sort of pullback in
Euro is probably going to be pretty
short-lived. We haven't seen much
destruction. Let's talk about the data.
Payrolls on Thursday. The estimate in
our survey now coming down to about 110
is a low number on Thursday a weak
number. I think it's got to be quite
weak. I think it's you know you look at
the talking about Bloomberg here the
whisper number which you know gives us a
sense of where the kind of
side that anything around 100k these
days because of immigration is actually
not a weak number. Maybe that's still
strength. Maybe that doesn't lead to a
higher unemployment rate. What are you
and the team thinking about? That's
really key point. Yeah, I think the, you
know, the break even rate, as you say,
is much lower than it was a couple
couple months ago. So, I mean, we we
have the unemployment rate eventually
getting up to four or five, but not
soon. Uh, and if you look at continuing
claims, that's telling you it's harder
to find a job, but initial jobless
claims are going nowhere. So, this could
be a very slow deterioration process.
Some tension in the data, at least for
the moment. Eric Nelson there of Wells
Fargo, we heard from Torson Stark of
Apollo, what last week sat in that
chair. He said maybe get used to 50 50k
on payrolls and maybe that's just the
replacement rate for unemployment. You
might not see it drift higher even with
numbers like that. So then what do you
do with that? Is that a positive thing?
Is that a negative thing? How do you
gauge numbers that look dramatically
different that are coming in at the
weakest on a headline level going back
to 2020? Even though people are saying
it's not tearing that quickly, it
becomes very complicated and the dual
mandate becomes that much more fraught.
I'm just going to say if you start
printing 50s, I think there will be some
screaming down in Washington about lower
interest rates. I would agree with that,
but that are you going to tell Amazon to
hire more people and fewer robots? Did
you see that story earlier today? I
mean, they have potentially uh more
robots than people in the next six to 12
months. And I'm just looking at this and
I'm like, how do you gauge that out? The
technological changes, you know, make
robots great again. I don't know. That
course will get a lot bigger. But what's
interesting when you say that, you're
already hearing from a lot of Democrats,
and you have been from the likes of
Elizabeth Warren. She lines up with
Trump on this, telling J. Pal that he
should and should have been lowering
rates for months. Didn't she call
Chairman Pal a dangerous man once? Yes.
Do you remember that? I do. Feels like a
lifetime ago, doesn't it? I just I keep
going back to if he listened to all of
these politicians. Would rates be lower
on the long end? And that ultimately is
the key question that people are not
giving a consistent answer to. Based on
experience, the experience of last year,
perhaps not. Equities this morning down
210 of 1%. Up next, Bob Michael of JP
Morgan, Henry Tra of Vader Partners,
Daniel Rusker of Bernstein, and David
Safe of Neora. Live from New York, the
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance is
up next.
[Music]
What started out as just a relief rally
is starting to become something real.
Institutional risk sentiment has
improved so much that people are willing
to put money to work. The risk in stocks
are a little higher today uh than they
were in April. All the negative things
which could happen have dissipated, you
know, at least for the time being. Does
it really make sense for equities to be
hitting new record highs? I think so. I
think that is a pain trade. This is
Bloomberg surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
That was all of that just one quarter.
Q2, let's hope Q3 is nothing like Q2.
Equity futures this morning look like
this. And good morning. We're down 210
of 1% on the S&P following back-to-back
all-time highs on a benchmark stage
side. On the last night 100 after a
major rally off the April low, we're
down just 2/10 of 1% close to record
highs across the board through the week.
Anticipating lots of data, including the
jobs report on Thursday. On Friday,
markets close, but it's a deadline, a
self-imposed deadline for what's
happening down in Washington DC right
now. live pictures in the Senate as they
drift towards a vote on the one big
beautiful bill with a consensus
coalescing that it might not be on July
4th as Amory mentioned, but that they
will get something passed despite these
eight holdouts that are lobbying for
some sort of uh specific deal. When you
take a step back, you just wonder how
much has changed. You talked about this
earlier. Are we heading into the second
half with the same presumptions? And the
answer is maybe not. Given that we have
a little bit more certainty that we have
this bill and that frankly the tariff
situation does seem to be facing some
sort of resolution. The bill is going to
get done. Does it get done in time?
Potentially not. Does it look like it
was the one in the house? No, it does
not. Which is why this is going to get
even more complicated when the Senate is
able to sign, seal, deliver it back to
the lower chamber. JD Vance though is in
the capital right now. So clearly they
are getting close to potentially needing
his tiebreaking vote. which Senate
Majority Leader John Thun right now is
doing is locking up the final senator he
needs because he knows he's not going to
have Tom Tillis. He likely won't have
Senator Paul, but maybe he will if
they're willing to do a negotiation on
the debt ceiling. The individual I'm
watching is Senator Lisa Marowski of
Alaska. If they can get language that
the parliamentarian signs off on when it
comes to a Medicaid carveout, she's
likely going to be a yes and they can
get the show on the road. As the
temperature rises down in Washington,
the tension builds between Elon Musk and
the president of the United States. is
round two, a second round of this.
Tesla's down in the pre-market by more
than 4%. The spack continues to build
over something that was obvious several
months ago. The removal or the phase out
of EV tax credits and initially Elon
Musk said it didn't really matter and
that ultimately it might even benefit
Tesla. It doesn't really matter to the
fundamental picture. Now it does matter
quite a bit at the same time that it's
one of the key concerns for a lot of
even Republican senators, Republican
Congress members who see that there is
some sort of economic benefit. When you
take a step back, it highlights how
fraud it is for someone to be perceived
as benefiting from being close to the
president because fortunes can change.
And I don't know if you can really
extrapolate out in some sort of
generality because this is a very
specific situation. But there is this
feeling that this is a complete about
face for both Elon Musk the man and
Tesla the company. Dan Ives just
published of course he's been watching
this beef and he says the best friend
forever situation he says BFF has now
turned to soap opera that remains an
overhang on Tesla stock with investors
feeling the Trump administration will be
more hawkish and show scrutiny around
Musk related US government spending
related to Tesla SpaceX and most
importantly the autonomous future with
the regulatory environment that is why
the stock is down this morning spare a
thought for these guys can we have some
sympathy for central bankers that much
this morning maybe small violins okay
9:30 Eastern in time. Chairman Powell
sitting down with ECB President
Christine Licard and Governor Aua of the
Central Bank of Japan in central
Portugal at 9:30. What on earth do these
guys do? The fact of the matter is apart
from Chairman Pal, some of those guys
have been doing quite a lot. Yeah, and
actually Christine Lagarde came out in a
speech and comments over the past couple
of days and talked about essentially
scenario analysis which hints at
something I don't want to say dual
mandate like but looking at potential
risks in a forward uh glance uh at
potential policy. I just wonder how much
they address tariffs, how much they
address inflation and whether inflation
is coming in at a time where European
inflation came in lighter than expected
this morning. I mean there are a whole
host of things that become very
complicated when they're looking forward
at a time where the crystal ball is
quite murky. The elephant in the room of
course is going to be the president who
just sent that letter to Jay Powell.
They're now pen pals and Christine
Lagarde who the president has been
praising for cutting interest rates. But
I have the smallest violin for them
because this conference is held in CRA
Portugal. Absolutely stunning. Beautiful
40° or triple digits here state side and
nowhere come. Yeah. Lovely stuff. Yeah.
I guess that uh you know we can actually
feel bad for them. I imagine maybe
they've got some air con. Who knows?
Coming up this hour, Bob Michael and JP
Morgan with stocks notching a second
quarter comeback. Henriett Trees of
Vader Partners as the Senate pulls an
allnighter. David Se of Neurora
expecting a lackluster 90k payroll
sprint this coming Thursday. We begin
this hour with stock steady after the
S&P 500 notched its best quarter since
December 23. Bob Michael of JP Morgan
writing, "The markets are in a good
place in the aftermath of the Middle
East ceasefire and progress on both
tariff negotiations and the one big
beautiful bill." Bob joins us now for
more. Bob, good morning. Good morning.
Is the big beautiful bill beautiful for
bonds. First, John, happy Canada Day.
Thank you so much. Former central banker
Mark Carney would appreciate the
acknowledgement. He's had a tough
previous week. So, are you down? Is
there more? You can carry on if you
want. No, no. Okay, that's Let's go to
your question. Canada's out of the way,
please. If you've got time, I I heard
you say earlier, I hope the third
quarter is nothing like the second
quarter. I wish the third quarter is
exactly like the second quarter. Think
about it. Yields are lower. Equity
prices are higher and overcrowded
dollars sold off a bit. It was all good.
And there was so much volatility during
the quarter that for an active manager,
you had a lot of opportunity to move
positions around. So, I would love that
quarter over again. We're not going to
get it. Everything is more stable right
now. So Bob, happy Canada Day. I
appreciated that, by the way. And I was
waiting. It means a lot to him. Clearly,
it did mean a lot. Although you didn't
break a flag, so I don't know. But I am
curious going forward. You said it's
going to be a lot more stable, which is
problematic for people who want to win
on the trading. What makes you think
it's going to be more stable when we
still have these levels of uncertainty
and potentially upside surprises to
inflation later this year? Because there
are a lot of policies the administration
tried to get out of the way. everything
everywhere all at once. It feels to us
they're trying to clear the deck before
the end of the year so that when you
roll into next year, you have a smooth
run into the midterm elections. They
learn from Trump term one. If you lose
the midterms, you lose the second half
of your presidency. So, I think they
want to get all the nasties out of the
way, come to resolutions on tariffs, on
the one big beautiful bill act. will
start tackling things like deregulation,
get all the dust settled as we head into
the fourth quarter and then the markets
can react to everything. They'll have
the information. Do we put the
handwritten note to Jay Powell under the
rubric of the nasties? I mean, in other
words, is this going to potentially be a
threat in the second half at a time when
you could potentially get a Fed that
does cut rates into potentially a more
dovish Fed leadership in 2026 at a time
where growth might surprise to the
upside with some of the stimulative
effects of this bill in Washington. So,
the back and forth of the president to
JPAL is nothing more than entertaining.
JPAL is not going anywhere. He walks in
every day and tries to do what's best
for the country. And I believe the FOMC
tries to do that as well. Although it
appears that there are some open mic
auditions down at the improv for the
next Fed chair. So put that aside.
They're doing the right thing. I wish in
these interviews with Secretary Treasur
with the Treasury Secretary Besson,
someone would say, "You know what? If
you want yields to come down in the long
end so that mortgage rates come down,
you should actually be asking the Fed to
hike rates 100 basis points in there
because that will bring rates down in
the long end because with the kind of
softness we're now kind of seeing in the
labor market, we haven't seen the full
impact on tariffs. We know businesses
and household rolled a lot of the
spending forward into the first quarter.
They're in a pause mode. Hiking rates
here is what would really bring long
rates down. But Michael, thank you.
Because we've been talking about this
now for months. The experience of last
year. The cut rates 100 basis points and
yields of the long end actually rose. Do
you see a risk of that developing this
year or are things different this time?
I I think we're getting past that. I
think there was a lot of deleveraging in
the long end. I think there was selling.
I think what you're seeing now is
money's coming into the bond market. It
goes into things like income funds and
aggregate bond funds and they buy across
the curve and it's starting to support
the long end. The long end looks
structurally cheap to the front end now.
Um I I think we're past the point about
wearing about how the US is going to are
the fundamentals that support that
appetite for longer dated bonds. Well,
the fundamentals are going to come from
longdated buyers. So, pension funds and
insurance companies that have long-term
liabilities that they have to defeat,
they pretty much own that market. And
what we're seeing right now is a sense
that yields don't look too bad where
they are. When you start looking at the
corporate market, the all-in yield looks
pretty good. If things do start to slow
down and the Fed actually does start to
bring rates down once a couple times
more because of a softening in the
economy because the labor market
starting to weaken, you're likely to see
that parallel curve shift lower that
Treasury Secretary Bessant was talking
about. So they don't want to miss it.
This sounds like the backdrop that we
would have been talking about uh the
investor uh buyer base maybe six months
ago. Supposedly that all changed.
foreign investors fled, even long-term
institutions. And you have this real
question about vigilantes with their
pitchforks coming out and protesting the
bill in Washington DC. What happened
with all of that? So, the foreign
investors never actually fled and we've
been saying that for a long time. We
deal with a lot of foreign investors. I
went to Tokyo a couple months ago, met
with a lot of big foreign investors.
They continue to put money into the US
bond market. There may have been a pause
for a week or so, but there was no net
selling. And we've seen that in the tick
data. We've seen that in the Fed's
custody data. They've been coming into
the auctions and buying. What they have
been doing is thinking about owning US
dollars versus their base currency. So,
they continue to buy US assets, but this
time they're less interested in taking
the US dollar and more interested in
hedging some of that back to their base
currency. So they're not selling dollar
assets, they're hedging the US dollar.
That's been a theme, hasn't it? Which
led to the surprising occurrence where
you saw decent performance in stocks and
bonds, but the dollar falling out of
bed. And can that continue as sort of
the one expression of concern about the
US budget and some of the policies?
Well, Michael JP Morgan's going to stick
with us. Lower yields again today. We're
down four basis points. It's a break of
420 on 10's 418. With an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, here's Yahara Arnard
with more. Hey yara. Hi John. Senate
Republican leaders continue scrambling
for votes to pass President Trump's $3.3
trillion tax and spending bill. They've
been up all night and are continuing to
vote on amendments to the legislation
amid deep party divisions over clean
energy and Medicaid cuts. There are
currently eight major Republican
holdouts. Meanwhile, President Trump is
attacking Fed Chair Jay Powell again,
posting on Truth Social, quote, "Jerome
Tulle Powell and his entire board should
be ashamed of themselves, adding, if
they were doing their job properly, our
country would be saving trillions of
dollars in interest costs. We should be
paying 1% interest." That message from
Trump was also sent to the Fed chair in
a letter. And Amazon is taking its
automation efforts to new heights. The
Wall Street Journal is reporting the
e-commerce giant has deployed over a
million robots in its facilities. That's
the most automation the company has ever
had and is nearing the count of human
workers. Around 3/4 of Amazon's global
deliveries are assisted in some way by
robotics. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara
later this hour. Up next, shoring up
support on Capitol Hill. I'm confident
that the the bill is going to progress a
as is over the next few hours and it'll
be on the the president's desk to sign
on July 4th. We're all on the same page
on how to grow the economy while
controlling and bringing down expenses.
Joining us in just a moment, Henry Trees
of Vader Partners and Bob Michael has a
whole lot more to say about that that
tax bill. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Just heard from a Bloomberg subscriber.
If you went to sleep in February and
woke up today, no change except for the
US dollar. Didn't feel like that, did
it? Equity futures right now on the S&P
negative by 210 of 1%. On the NASDAQ
100, we're down by a quarter of 1% with
all eyes on the nation's capital under
surveillance this morning, shoring up
support on Capitol Hill. I'm confident
that the the bill is going to progress a
as is over the next few hours and it'll
be on the the president's desk to sign
on July 4th. So, the Senate Senate will
vote, pass it over to the House. We've
seen incredible leadership and this is
what leadership looks like. We're all on
the same page on how to grow the economy
while controlling and bringing down
expenses. Here's the latest this
morning. Senate Republicans pulling an
allnighter looking for votes on the one
big beautiful bill. Henrietta Traved
partners writing eventually the rubber
will have to hit the road and we expect
that the House will roll over and accept
the Senate's more material deficit
increases. Henrietta joins us now for
more. Henrietta, welcome back to the
program. just describe what's taking
place in the Senate right now and
whether you believe we're pretty close
to getting this done. Yeah, it looks
like we're in forcit mode. Uh we've got
JD Vance going up to the Senate um
clearly indicating with some muscle that
he's there to break a vote if he needs
to and be the hold out. But I want to
just emphasize one thing here. him
having to vote for the bill now means
that over the last 72 hours, the
trajectory of this bill has actually
lost a senator along the way. So, his
vote was not needed for the motion to
proceed uh on Saturday night and now it
is. And that's not necessarily that's
obviously not a good sign. And I think a
big part of that could be the
distributional tables that were released
by the JCT at about 2:00 this morning,
which show the top bracket is going to
um see $12,500
when this bill is passed and the lowest
bracket is going to see $150 bucks. So
that's really the fallout here. That's
what's got Alaska all flipped out. We've
got some problems still. Henrietta, is
it when it comes to the senator of
Alaska, Lisa Marowski, is she the one
that Majority Leader John Thun has to
flip?
She's essential to the package. What we
always watch and you know it's been
decades now is the combination of
Collins and Marowski. And let's not
forget that Dan Sullivan is one of the
Alaska senators that's actually up next
cycle. So when you get 35% of the
Medicaid recipients in Alaska that are
under risk of seeing their cuts uh or
their health care lost, that's a
material problem for the state. But then
we still have the IRA issues that are
critical to uh Maine and a whole host of
other states as well. So I think we
actually have a little bit longer to go
before this is all nailed down. In your
note, you think that in the end the
final passage will get Morcowski and
Senator Collins vote. But Senator
Collins had an amendment earlier this
morning when it would give more money to
rural hospitals in lie of raising the
tax rate on those making $25 million or
more and that was struck down. So is she
a no now given her amendment went down
in flames? You know, in my experience,
that's more of a messaging document.
you're not going to get Republicans to
vote for tax increases for any
individual brackets. Even President
Trump tried to do that earlier on in the
year and the party killed it pretty
quickly. So, I see that more of as a
message uh and you know, pretty serious
signal to Senator Collins who was also
up for re-election next cycle. Uh that
she has another workaround. But the fact
again that Vance is there means she
might be a no vote. And she made it
really clear during the motion to
proceed on Saturday night that she was
only voting to proceed. She did not have
support for the underlying bill. So
Vance being there suggests that they
have lost a senator from the process
alone. Henrietta, then this goes to the
House and you think the House just
accepts it. Although we're already
seeing some House members come out, the
Salt Caucus, I don't like what they did
to tweak the what happened with the salt
cap. You have the House Freedom Caucus
saying actually this raises the deficit.
We're going to be increasing spending.
Why are you so sure? The House is just
going to take this on the chin. Yeah.
And I'm sorry it's been a long night,
but I got to say the Salt Caucus has to
sit down. I mean, they've gotten enough
of their carve out. They got a 40k uh
cap. They've got it up to $500,000 uh
for an income bracket. So, they've
gotten what they're going to get. That's
why the distributional tables are so
bad. I I would really expect that the
Marowski Ernst Grassly bill on the IRA
or the amendment has to pass in order to
satiate the House um IRA supporters of
which there are anywhere between 18 and
30 members. To me, that's a bigger
caucus than the Salt Conference, who's
already gotten as much as they can ask
for, much more than I anticipated
indeed. Um, so I I think that they need
to sit down and we need to move into the
IRA place. We haven't even gotten an
amendment vote on that bill yet. Um, so
we need to see that happen. We're
getting closer, Henrietta. Thank you.
Henrietta Trace there, Evadera Partners.
We're getting closer and bond yields are
falling, not rising. We're down four
basis points on 10's 419. Bob Michael,
JP Morgan still with us. This is about
to pass and bond yields are falling, not
rising. Does this nation's deficit and
debt matter to the price of treasuries?
No, it doesn't. And I think more bad
decisions have been made about buying
and selling treasuries on the amount of
US debt out there than anything else um
that's come along. So, I look, we in the
market have gotten our head around we're
going to see a one big beautiful bill.
It's going to increase spending over 10
years, 2.8 to 3.2 trillion. I don't know
where CBO scoring is at this minute, but
it's somewhere in that vicinity. It
could even be a little bit higher. We
get it. Does that mean that the Fed can
bring the Fed funds rate down to 3%?
Probably not. Can they bring it down to
three and a half, three and three/4ers?
Probably because you still have the
tariffs hitting first. That 10% baseline
tariff has been in place for several
months already. Businesses and
households are pausing a bit. You do
need this one big beautiful bill to come
along and give some impetus to the
economy. It could be an interesting
balance here. I think we in the markets
are over it. Maybe it's because Scott
Besson is not over it and has been
really focused on that 10-year yield and
keeping that lower and a real question
around what the Fed will do, what this
president will jawbone for in order to
keep borrowing costs relatively low for
the United States. Does that affect
where the bond market is viewing this?
The fact that the US might not issue as
much in the long end that they will
adjust depending on the market's
response. If I were Besson, I would take
the win. I've said all year it's a shock
to me that the 10-year didn't get to 5%
and stay there. You've got a 4 and 38%
Fed funds rate. They haven't cut rates
in 7 months. All these rate cuts that
people had four, five, six this year.
They've had to take off the boards yet.
It's been really hard to move the
10-year too far away from a 4.4% yield.
That's pretty much flat to the Fed funds
rate. So there still is a tremendous
amount of demand for bonds. There's a
tremendous amount of demand for for
treasuries. We didn't get to that 5%
level despite all the inflation and
growth impact you could see from
policies coming out of Washington. So I
you know I think the Treasury markets in
a really good place right now. So with
due apology to Edard Denny, but do you
think that the concept of a bond
vigilante is a myth and not reality?
I think so. I I think it would be nice
if we could put on a mask and jump on a
horseback and ride through and drive the
markets wherever we wanted them. But you
know what? They good old days, Bob? They
were. It was. But look, the with the
Canadian flag, the amount of bond
investable assets no longer sits on
broker deal or balance sheet looking to
be traded or hedged or moved or
repriced. They're sitting in end client
portfolios in wealth management accounts
in pension funds and insurance
companies. That's where the bulk of the
AUM is and that's pretty stable. I look
at the amount of cash that's still in
the system. I saw an interesting stat uh
a week or so ago. We're watching money
market fund assets that 7 trillion. When
you start adding in checking accounts,
deposit accounts, savings accounts,
suddenly you're over 21 trillion in
liquidity. That's a new indoor record
and it still keeps rising. So there's a
lot of money slloshing around in the
system. Everyone feels a sense that
they've missed something. They want to
get in the market somewhere. I've got a
call tonight with Australia. I've had
many calls yesterday. I've got more.
Everyone is asking me where do we get
in? How do we get in? What do we buy?
What do you think going forward?
Nobody's asking me how do I get out of
the bond market yet? I've been saying
that all year and here we are lower
yields. I'm not that surprised. What
about section 8.99? Are people now
feeling like they're more willing to get
in front of US assets because that's
been stripped out of this bill? That was
a concern. I I think by and large the
overseas investor
looked at that and said that can't
possibly happen. When we get down to
talking about the specifics and the
unintended consequences of some of these
policies that will be taken off the
board, I was more concerned than a lot
of our foreign investors were. They
proved to be right on this. Bob Michael
of JP Morgan on the bond market. Bob,
thank you, sir. Always appreciate it.
And thanks for the two Sundays we spent
with you in Q2 as well, which now feel
like a lifetime ago, right? Feels like a
lifetime ago. Yeah. He says that he
would want a repeat of this. I love
spending Sunday evenings with you. Let's
hope that there aren't that many more of
them. A repeat of the price action, just
to be clear. Sure. Bob's going to take
that. I'm not sure about the work that
went into it. Up next on the program, it
is Trump versus Musk volume two. Daniel
Rusker of Bernstein with EV credits on
the chopping block. Plus, Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers with the impact
on Tesla.
[Music]
Three winning streak coming into Q3.
Equities pulling back just a little bit.
No drama whatsoever. We're down 210 of
1%. Plenty of drama elsewhere. We'll get
to that in just a moment. We're down a
quarter of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 with
your morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny Burgerer. Morning, Danny. Good
morning, John. And a taste of that drama
for you. Tesla shares in the pre-market
down just under 5%. It's the back and
forth between Elon Musk and President
Trump over social media. Elon Musk
slamming the bill making its way through
Congress right now. Trump on truth
social last night seemingly threatening
to take away some of Elon Musk's
company's subsidies. Hence, you get the
drop in Tesla, showing just how
sensitive it is to that. Moments ago, we
also got a press release from AMC
announcing a an agreement with creditors
in which it would take out about $223
million of debt. It would use that to
pay down a line of current debt that
expires in 2026. Maybe a little bit of
extension for 10. shares down more than
1% bouncing around a bit this morning.
It's also going to be a dilutive event.
It's also going to equitize about $143
uh million dollar of existing debt as
well. So that has shares off this
morning. Finally wrapping things up with
some sellside action for you. TD Cowan
downgrading the salad chain Sweet Green
to a hold saying that it's done channel
checks and it suggests that stores that
are at least four years old are going to
be facing doubledigit declines in same
store sales. It also doesn't like its
new strategy of moving to more suburban
areas. Says it's unproven. So, John, the
uh the push back against $20 salads,
it's real. Apparently, it is. And the
chicken was getting worse as well over
the past few months. There's a real
problem. Throwing that out there. Of
course, that's a very personal opinion,
but just throwing that out there.
Anything else? When companies be public,
these things tend to happen. My issue is
just the portions get smaller and
smaller. So, you get the salmon, it went
from like this to like this. Portions
come down, quality gets worse. People
are a little meaner. See that across the
board. They're meaner to you. That might
be a personal thing. All right. On a
radar this morning, Senate Republican
leaders pulling an allnighter looking to
shore up support for the president's tax
bill. Vice President JD Vance at the
capital right now. He would cast a
tiebreaking vote if needed to get the
bill across the finish line. So, the new
music looks good. When the vice
president shows up to the capital, it
means that likely we could be close to a
vote. They've been doing this voterama,
these amendments since 9:00 a.m.
yesterday. So, this has been a slog, an
all-nighter. The individual I'm looking
out for is Senator Lisa Marowski of
Alaska. They were trying to work on
language to get a Medicaid carveout for
her state. But Henry Trees brought
something up that I think might hurt the
Republicans going into the midterms. The
Yale Budget Lab yesterday changes to
taxes and Medicaid and SNAP spending
proposed by the Senate budget bill would
result in decline of 2.9% in income for
the bottom of America, but an increase
of 1.9% for the top 1%. That is why the
likes of Lisa Marcowsky and Susan
Collins are saying we need some
carveouts for our states. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Basson was speaking to
the American media just moments ago. He
said the tax bill more than pays for
itself on this spat with Elon Musk. I
admire Musk on rockets. I'll take care
of the finances. Yeah. Well, and the
Musk uh point, I will leave that to the
side for one second. The idea of the tax
bill more than paying for itself really
stems from the idea of tariffs. On the
other side of this, we've been talking
about the connection between July 4th
and July 9th and how that's not being
accounted for necessarily in some of the
uh budget estimates. These two stories
are connected. The latest on tariffs
sounds like this. Some tension between
the US and the Japanese. The president
contemplating higher tariffs on Japan.
The president saying, quote, "They won't
take our rice and yet they have a
massive rice shortage." In other words,
we'll just be sending them a letter. So,
this was my rabbit hole today was rice
in Japan, which is actually fascinating.
Stage is yours. Okay, so in the 1970s,
there was incredible overupping
in prices of rice. Some of the rice
farmers were incredibly politically
connected and savvy and so they got
certain uh limitations or restrictions
that allowed them to only produce a
certain amount and really keep prices
high. They removed those but they get
benefits if they stick to certain quotas
so they don't produce too much. So this
is true, but at the same time, they
don't want to accept rice from the
United States, even though the price of
rice has doubled since 2023 in Japan,
causing a real political issue among
consumers because guess what? Those rice
uh farmers are pretty politically
connected. The rice lobby is the third
rail for Japanese politicians. The same
way when you see a US politician come
out and talk about potentially raising
retirement age or cutting social
security, it's not going to fly. What I
find so interesting about this whole
trade story right now with this
administration as we look into July 9th,
they're looking at potentially getting a
deal with the European Union before
Japan. Japan and India were supposed to
be right out of the gate. Quick
agreements. Now it looks like the
pecking order is starting to change has
shifted. The EU willing to accept that
10% universal tariff. The tension
though, as Lisa pointed out, is going to
come later. It's the debate over the
exemptions and the tariffs on certain
sectors. Well, especially when you're
talking about these personal prides for
all of these countries. You talk about
chicken in the European Union. You talk
about rice in Japan. There all of these
sort of national champions that you have
to somehow work out. The national
champion of Europe are chickens. Is that
right? I'm just saying there's a lot of
national champions of food. You're doing
so well on rice. Okay. Like how about
champagne in France? I mean going after
every single aspect. Cars in Germany. I
mean it's literally every single
national champion. Okay. Fine.
Chickens are not back in the game. Let's
turn to British chickens. Very good.
Yeah. Okay. Apple Wang using AI
technology from Open AI or anthropic to
power a new version of Siri. Sourc is
telling us here at Bloomberg that Apple
has asked both firms to train versions
of their large language models to run on
Apple's own cloud infrastructure. Now,
this could be a massive shift for Apple
strategically, which typically tries to
do a lot of things inhouse. I also think
it's a massive concession that things
aren't going so well internally which
was the reason why it was interesting
that the stock price went up in response
to this. People saying finally you guys
are just uh really seeing the light that
you aren't succeeding at really
competing at the level you need to be
competing with which really goes to the
heart of what is the new uh
technological advancement that Apple's
going to come to to prove that it isn't
just the Lagard of the Mag 7. Ed Lllo on
the west coast in about 40 minutes from
now joining this program. Less on rice
and chicken, much more on Trump versus
Elon Musk. Mus slamming Trump's tax and
spending bill. Trump firing back saying,
quote, "Elon might get might get more
subsidy than any human being in history
by far. Perhaps we should have Doge take
a good hard look at this. Big money to
be saved." Joining us now is Bloomberg's
Craig Trudal. Craig, welcome to the
program. Before we get kneede in all of
the sparring between the two, I just
want to understand how different what is
being proposed this morning is to what
we heard on the campaign trail. because
for us around the table it doesn't sound
too different at all.
Yeah. You know, I I think this phasing
out of of uh tax credits and and uh you
know, specifically as as they apply to
electric vehicles is is consistent with
what Trump campaigned on. And I I do
think uh that there's an attempt here on
the part of of Trump and and uh you
know, Republicans to kind of make this
into oh, Musk just doesn't like that
we're cutting subsidies for his electric
cars. I I do think that we have to sort
of acknowledge that Musk has has uh you
know put forward a more nuance argument
here of of you know fine put you know do
away with subsidies for electric
vehicles but let's also do away with
subsidies in general. I think he has a
much broader uh beef with with just the
amount of of you know money that's being
you know added in in this budget the
amount of debt that the country is going
into and he has talked for years about
doing away with subsidies. I think
there's just of course rightfully, you
know, a case to be made for the idea
that uh, you know, he he at the same
time is sort of talking out out of the
both sides of his mouth and saying,
well, you know, if if we're going to do
away with these subsidies, uh, we're
doing away with sort of the what what
ought to be the future of of the economy
and the future of of the US economy in
particular. It's certainly hurting the
stock this morning. We're down 5% at the
pre-market. Craig, thank you. With us
around the table, Daniel Rusker of
Bernstein, a much followed analyst on
this name and across the industry.
Daniel, good morning. Morning, John.
This is what we expected to happen. How
does it change the industry? I don't
think what happened over the past 24
hours really changes the industry. What
you need to remember is a big portion of
the Tesla stock is held by retail
investors. And so, as you get big news
items, maybe things that we've been
following for months now rise to their
attention and that triggers some of the
movement, I think. What does it do to
the EV uh industry in the United States
that already has uh sort of fallen
behind when it comes to the amount of
adoption? I think the US is really a
bifurcated market, right? On average,
we're at 10%, but we've got a couple of
states at 20% EV sales and a couple of
states close to zero. And I think it
will really make it hard for those
states that haven't seen EV sales, uh
Mississippi, Alabama, kind of some of
those states to start buying EVs. And so
that really puts big pressure on
automakers that they're faced with some
states where consumers like EVs and buy
EVs and some states where they don't.
There are these high flutin goals that
auto manufacturers in the US would
achieve a high percentage of all of
their cars coming out being electric
vehicles over the next 10 20 years. Are
those all gone? If you go back to that
period, 2019, 2021, just when Tesla was
taking off, there was a big hype in the
industry at this table and everywhere
else on Wall Street. And I think the
automakers got caught up in that to some
degree and thought this would go a lot
lot faster, but it didn't. And they've
been caught off guard with production
plans that really don't fit consumer
demand at this point. What do you see
happening in terms of the subsidies
being taken away? Do you think this puts
EV makers in the United States at a big
disadvantage from say like BYD?
It depends on where you compete. I think
in the US we're not really seeing
competition with BYD. And so you got to
look in the US who's getting incentive
and who isn't. And I think in the US
this is mainly a consumer question. You
know, do you want to sell more EVs? Do
you want to incentivize the consumer?
The real strategic risk against global
competitors is five ten years down the
line because of course if consumers
don't demand as many EVs there will not
be as much research in EVs in the US and
the technology that companies like
Kyundai Kia but also BYD build will be
far superior than the ones the US
manufacturers will have with this fight
with the president in packed Tesla when
it comes to the regulatory environment.
Well, as we've said before, the
cancellation of EV credits will put a
dent in demand and that will hurt any EV
maker in the US, including Tesla as
well. But everybody else who's been
collecting subsidies as well, uh like GM
for example, um we've seen in other
countries like Germany or France or
Norway when incentives were kind of
taken off, demand drops precipitously,
right? and then Norway actually averted
went back and now we have a very high um
penetration Norway. So it's not to say
that this is the end of EVs. It's a big
bump in the road. It's probably more
like a cliff. Um but I don't think the
US industry will end up just being ICE
cars in the end. We we will transition
to EVs, but it'll take a much long much
take longer. But you nailed it. The
production mix isn't where the consumer
is. Who's in the sweet spot? Who's got
it right
right now? I think everybody's
scrambling because everybody was
planning with like 40 45% EV production
by 2030 and that's not going to happen.
So everybody's on the back foot.
Stellantis is in my view in the best
position because their new technology
platform is flexible between ICE hybrid
and EVs. And so using those same
production assets to just make more
combustion engine cars is possible
whereas it's much more difficult for
somebody like Ford or GM. Is that your
preferred stock?
across all of them we cover. Yes, we're
short the lot with the exception of
Stalantis whom were market performer and
that's where the market right tariffs
are coming in consumers weak we're going
to see um SAR dropping down but yeah
Stalantis over everybody else right now
just how much are prices going to go up
just across the board because of tariffs
and some of the production uh
complicated aspects that we hear about
all the time um tariffs give you about a
6 to 10% headwind on the price so if you
look at the price 50,000 routed bound in
the US the tariff is between four and
6,000 bucks. OEMs will not be able to
eat all of that. They've been
internalizing quite a bit. We'll see
that in pretty challenging Q2 numbers,
but our estimation is that half of that
goes to the consumer and half of that
will need to be carried by the OEM.
Daniel, enjoyed this. It's good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Daniel
Rusker there of Bernstein. Tesla, the
stock to watch in the pre-market down at
the moment by about 5%. Let's give you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Back
with us, here's Yahara. Hey yra. Hi,
John. We start with the latest on Tik
Tok. The prospective buyer of its US
operations that President Trump referred
to over the weekend is said to be the
same investor group that bid earlier
this year. It includes Oracle, Andre
Horowitz, and Blackstone. That's
according to sources. The group's first
bid for the app stalled back in April as
trade tensions between Washington and
Beijing ramped up. Meanwhile, Meta CEO
Mark Zuckerberg announcing a major
restructuring of its AI group, which
includes a series of new hires. We have
been reporting on this, but now it's
official. Meta's AI efforts will fall
under a new group called Meta Super
Intelligence Labs. Alexander Wang,
former CEO of Scale AI, will lead the
group as Meta Chief AI officer.
And that the WNBA is expanding. The
league has announced new teams in
Cleveland, Detroit, and Philadelphia
with a record expansion fee of $250
million each. Each team will launch
between 2028 and 2030. The WNBA is also
in the midst of negotiations with its
union for higher pay and minimum
facility requirements for players.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John Yhara,
thank you. More from Yhara in the next
hour. Up next on our program, a shaky
employment picture.
There's probably a bit of a back and
forth on the data front. You know, the
the employment market is probably, at
least in our estimation, the shakiest
parts of the current setup. In this
environment, what may go wrong is a
softening, weakening labor pressure. Up
next on the program, David Se of Neora.
David looking for a soft number this
Thursday morning. Live from New York
City. Good morning.
[Music]
the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
speaking just moments ago with this to
sound the Federal Reserve. Maybe the Fed
is waiting too long to cut interest
rates. Well, the man himself can speak
for himself a little bit later this
morning at 9:30 Eastern time. Chairman
Pal on a panel in CRA, Portugal
alongside his peers, the ECB president
Christine Lagard, Governor Aer of the
BOJ among others at a time where he's
getting some increased push back from
this White House. In the equity market
at the moment, the S&P 500 shaping up as
follows. Equity futures negative by 210
of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by a quarter. As we anticipate more
economic data through the week under
surveillance this morning, a shaky
employment picture. There's probably a
bit of a back and forth on the data
front. You know, the the employment
market is probably, at least in our
estimation, the shakiest parts of the
current setup, meaning there's a lot of
underemployment. We think that
businesses writ large are still very
cautious. In this environment, what may
go wrong is a softening, weakening labor
pressure. So, here's the latest this
morning. Investors counting down to June
payrolls out on Thursday. The estimate
in our survey expecting 110K jobs added.
David Se of Neora falling below
consensus writing we expect a lackluster
non-farm payroll rise of just 90k the US
labor market is clearly calling but it
is not collapsing David's here with us
in New York David good morning good
morning 90k is a low number is a low
number a weak number well that's
interesting the question is what has
happened to uh trend NFP or what is the
NFP necessary to keep the unemployment
rate steady and it does seem to have
fallen quite a bit in the past couple of
years due to uh immigration coming down
more than anything else. And uh so
probably trend NFP is still over 100K,
but it's not much over 100K. So is this
a weak number? Yes, if I have to answer
in one in one word, but only a little
bit if I'm a little if I'm allowed to go
a little longer than that. Here's
another way of asking a question. If we
get 90K, is unemployment going up? Well,
we think it's going to go up to 4.3, but
really that's a very small change. So we
had 4.2 um in the last print, but it
rounded down to 4.2. So, we're talking
about just a tiny increase. Um, and
really, you know, our expectation for
the second half of this year is we're
going to have um an average NFP uh only
in the in the mid80s. And unemployment
rate is only going to go up to about
4.4% on that. So, really just doesn't
take as much to keep the unemployment
rate steady anymore because there are
fewer workers entering the economy each
month. To John's point, if we do get
smaller numbers and they aren't
necessarily weak, per se, but sort of
the new normal where there just is less
dynamism,
is this a real uh picture that we can
look for going forward where there just
is less hiring, less firing, less job
creation, less job destruction, less
motion in the US labor market than there
has been traditionally. Yeah. Well,
there there's definitely a lot less
motion. I'm not sure that the 90k is
really the the best indicator of it. You
know, when you when you look at NFP,
you're just looking at the net number.
you're looking at the number of people
who lost a job and the number of people
who got a job. What's really been
interesting and really been going on
since 2022 is that the the gross
numbers, the gross flows into new jobs
and out of jobs have both come down a
lot or at least the number of people
being hired has come down a real lot.
So, if you have a job right now, even
with the cooling economy, even with the
cooling labor market, you're about in as
good shape as you've ever been. Um, if
you are one of the unlucky few who has
lost your job or arguably even worse, if
you're in a cohort like college grads
who's looking for a job, things look a
lot worse for you than you would expect
from a 4.2 or 4.3% unemployment rate. I
guess the question is, is this a sign of
weakening to come or is this a sign of
an oification of the US market that's
new, that's more like Europe and less
like the US? Yeah, it does look a lot
like Europe and and I think that the
jury is still out on that. Is this a
permanent thing or is this what we're
going through in this cycle? I think
what we saw in 2020 is companies in the
United States uh vastly over fired. They
came to regret that pretty badly a
couple years later. And you had people
companies scrambling for jobs for
workers in in 2022. And now there may be
a a sort of uh pendulum swinging the
other way. Now they're reluctant to get
rid of people more so because they
remember that. Um, I I I will say that,
you know, it's obviously great to have
job security, but part of what has
really defined American exceptionalism
is the the churn in the labor market
that companies will renew. There's sort
of this creative destruction in all
sorts of different levels. And if you do
lose a job, it's not the disaster that
it would be in many other countries
because there's so much hiring going on.
What does the Fed do with this? Well, I
don't think the Fed does that much about
sort of a slowing uh slowing gross
numbers. the Fed has to really focus on
uh the overall unemployment rate and of
course on inflation. And so I think that
really with with uh with only one
instrument, the the Fed funds rate to uh
to hit two different targets already, um
it doesn't want to start uh creating
more targets for itself, so to speak. Is
there reason good reason to believe the
dual mandate might be in conflict by the
time we get to the end of the year?
Well, I mean the the the dual the Fed is
being pulled in two different directions
right now. No question about that. That
that's par for the course. So, um, labor
markets cooling that makes them want to
cut and I think that the Fed would have
continued cutting already this year had
it not been for the prospect of tariff
uh tariff induced inflation. Um, and now
I think uh Powell has pretty pretty uh
clearly communicated that this is a wait
and see mode and so uh we think they
need a few more months of uh no
inflation um before they would be
comfortable cutting again unless there's
a a real negative surprise on the labor
market. He goes beyond that though. He
doesn't just say it's a wait and see
situation. He says the data and the
economy is solid enough and that's a
reason for us to wait. We can wait. Do
you describe it as solid? I I think that
I think that solid is is uh it's fading
a little bit that the word, but I do
think it's still fair to say that. I
mean 4.2 4.3% unemployment that's still
really low. I mean that is the Fed's
never exactly defined what quote unquote
full employment is, but this has got to
be pretty close to what it is. So, we
think the unemployment rate is going to
creep higher, but got to remember that
the Fed's still well above its mandate
uh on on inflation. And so, to the
extent that it has to prioritize uh
hitting both of them, it has to focus on
the one where it's further away from its
target. That is precisely the argument
that Esther George, the former Kansas
City Fed president, made on this program
just yesterday. David Se there of Neura.
David, thank you. My pleasure.
Appreciate your time. Looking ahead to
payrolls Thursday, of course, not on
Friday because of the long weekend here
state side and the July 4th holiday. The
number we're looking for on Friday in
our survey, putting together all the
estimates from economists, 110K. David,
they're looking for something closer to
90. Also tracking the latest down in
Washington DC looking ahead to this
self-imposed deadline on Friday, July
4th to pass the tax bill. The president
of the United States speaking just
moments ago, right? He's walking out to
Marine 1. He stopped to talk to
reporters. Obviously, they're asking
about what is going on right now with
the one big beautiful bill. He says,
"We're going to get there." He says he
thinks they're doing well. When he asked
about, "Do you think they're cutting too
much?" I don't like cuts. Obviously,
this is not going to be good for the
president going to the midterm elections
for his party, which raises the issue of
how much they're going to backtrack,
backfill, push out some of the deadlines
of the expiration of certain benefits
and leave the deficit in a much more
significant case. I mean, again, all
roads point the to Washington DC
spending more and spending it with debt.
And that seems to be the likely path of
travel here. I think you asked a few
months ago, where the hooks where the
fiscal hooks don't appear to be in the
Senate, do they? There's a few, one or
two, but no, they're all fiscal hawks
until it comes to their state. I I spoke
to Steve Dennis this morning, who's our
Senate reporter. I think he's taking a
nap now. He's been up all night. And he
said, Amry, name me a state. I'll find
you pork. They're all getting something
to get their vote. Bonard to lower this
morning. We're down by about two or
three basis points at the moment. A
break of 420 in the last 24 hours. Up
next on the program in the third hour of
Blindberg surveillance, we'll catch up
with Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth,
Clay Griffin of Moffett Nathansson,
Blina Yuruchi of Troll Price, and Colin
Martin of Charles Schwab live from New
York City. The second half of 2025
officially begins. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
We've seen an economy that's beginning
to slow. It's being hit by policy
changes that um businesses are trying to
digest. There's probably a bit of a back
and forth. And on the data front, we're
not actually making progress on
inflation. If the unemployment
deteriorates, I think the Fed will will
react to that. The markets, I think, are
still looking for a a smoking gun. To
me, that could be a a negative payroll
print. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now as does the second half of 2025
coming into Q3 at all-time highs and
pulling back just a little bit on the
S&P. We're down a few ten of 1% across
the board here. Down a third on the
NASDAQ 100. The attention for all of us
right now is on the Senate as they look
to pass the one big beautiful bill. The
president speaking just moments ago and
Marie saying the tax bill will hopefully
pass today. He's seeing some good
momentum when he's hearing about he says
we think we're going to get there when
it comes to this bill. They are still
debating it. We are still waiting on a
number of amendments. One critical
amendment from Joanie Erns when it comes
to what is going on with solar and wind
renewable subsidies that potentially
could get more moderates on board. The
individual I'm looking out for, yes, the
vice president is there, so maybe we're
close. But the individual I'm looking
out for is one hold out when it comes to
Senator Lisa Marowski of Alaska. They've
been trying to work out a carve out for
Medicaid funds in her state of Alaska.
If they're able to get that language
over the finish line, she could be a yes
and this can go back to the lower
chamber. The individual I'm looking out
for is Elon Musk. The stock I'm looking
at right now is Tesla near session lows
and down by more than 5%. The president
on Elon Musk just moments ago asked
about deporting. The CEO of Tesla saying
we'll have to take a look. This coming
after his tweet fest or truthfest over
the past 24 hours talking about how this
one South African can come in here and
has gotten so many subsidies that do
should really take a look at all of the
potential uh benefits that Tesla has
received and Elon Musk's companies has
received from the United States
government. I just take want to take a
step back. Sure. And show how quickly
things can change for specific
companies, for specific policies. And it
raises the question, yes, we seem like
we're stable when it look when you just
look at the gains in the S&P 500, but
what this type of volatility does for
the dollar going forward as well as
potentially individual names. Rhetoric
is very hot. We have the president of
United States saying he's going to look
into deporting an individual. What I
would say though is something that Craig
Trudeell said earlier. Elon Musk has
been super consistent when it comes to
subsidies. He's like, "If they're not
going to be for my industry, they
shouldn't be for any industry. Why are
we also have subsidies for the oil and
gas industry if we're not going to also
have them for the EV industry?" He's
been against them writ large across the
board. Cuz now Republicans are saying
the only reason he's coming out is
because of the EV subsidies, which to
their point, they have been campaigning
on for over a year. It's also fair to
say they've been consistent, too. To
your point, that stock is down by more
than 5%. A theme of the program this
morning, the president taking on Elon
Musk, taking on hold out Republicans,
also taking on Chairman Pal. Later on
this morning, in about 90 minutes from
now, call it 87. Chairman Pal sitting
down in central Portugal with some of
his peers working out the path forward
for monetary policy. Do you think he's
going to write a handwritten note with a
Sharpie should ask him inflation? Did he
return it? Yeah. And hold it up saying,
I am in wait and see mode. You know, at
a certain point, you have to wonder what
new can he say. Uh we have heard that he
does seem open to September for a rate
cut which is the de facto pricing in
markets. We've heard from other Fed
officials. So how far is he away from
what the Fed wants? Well the Fed uh what
from what President Trump wants? Well,
President Trump wants a 1% Fed funds
rate which he is not going to get. And
if he does get good luck to long end uh
treasuries to John's point yesterday,
maybe Jay Powers to turn around and say
set your tariff rate and then I could
set a new interest rate. to the point
that he had on the hearing was not just
the impact of the tariffs, but what are
the tariffs going to be? We're talking
about the one big beautiful bill this
morning because they have this elf
imposed deadline of July 4th. Next week
it is all trade. Print out the
statement, get a Sharpie and sign it, JP
JP, something like that. Yeah, I can
just imagine that. You know, you don't
want him you don't want you don't want
President Trump saying deport J Powell.
I mean, honestly, how much more do you
need these cat fights to really get? We
want it to settle down. Yeah, I think
so. For market participants, they
couldn't care less. We've talked about
this a million times. all-time highs on
the S&P 500. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth following the S&P's best quarter
since 23. Klay Griffin of Moffin
Nathansson as Apple looks beyond Cutino
for solutions. And Burino Uruchi of Tro
Price as President Trump ramps up the
pressure on the Federal Reserve. We
begin this hour with stocks taking a
breather after posting fresh record
highs. Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
writing, "We still see the equity pain
trade being higher thanks to relatively
light positioning which creates the
potential for a continued chasing of
strength." Cameron joins us now for
more. Cameron, good morning. Good
morning. Pain trades higher. Does it
come with narrow leadership too? I think
it does simply because we're seeing
narrow leadership within the earnings
line because earnings revisions higher
are really being driven by MAG7 and
growth names. It suggests that you
continue to see this this narrow
leadership and you see it in the equal
weight S&P 500 making a new relative low
versus the market not just this year but
actually undercutting the December low.
So yes, there's broad participation in
the market. There's 72% of names are
above their 50-day moving average, but
the magnitude of the upside is just in a
handful of names. You talked about the
E, the earnings revisions improving for
that cohort of stocks. What about the P?
What's the price of the story now? It is
times like this that we have to remember
that valuation is not a good timing tool
and that there are occasionally
short-term periods that cause valuations
to defy gravity. We think that we could
be in one of those short-term periods
because sentiment is not stretched.
There are still more bears than bulls in
the AI bullbear index and positioning is
still light 20th percentile in that
Deutsche Bank consolidated positioning
that can cause a chase into markets.
We're already trading at 22.1 times
forward. So you have a scenario where if
you get that chase further multiple
expansion earnings maybe stay stable
that's when we're looking out in the
next couple of months you could see more
volatility but near-term you get the
chase. So if you see things as expensive
but potentially likely to go more
expensive what do you do with that? Yeah
we think that we have to stay up in the
quality sphere. You have seen a huge
rally in lowquality high beta names. So
if you look at the lowest quality parts
of the market has had more than double
the return than the rest of the market.
That's not something we want to chase
because what you're inviting if you
chase that is a lot more downside
volatility when eventually the valuation
hits a ceiling. So we stick to high
quality. We stick to our knitting
looking for very small pockets at this
point of relative value. Hard to find
but I think that that remains very
important. If Bob Michael is correct and
the bond vigilantes never existed and
the horseback riders just, you know,
have basically retired, at what point do
you see lower yields ahead on the heels
of lower inflation in a Fed that is
geared up to cut potentially acting as a
tailwind to multiple expansion? This is
always the danger with ascribing
narrative to price action because when
we looked at bond yields rising, we said
it must be deficits that are causing
bond yields to rise. in in fact what we
saw instead like going back into the the
fall of last year it was economic
surprises soaring higher. So you've seen
economic surprises turn much lower.
People have been cutting their GDP
growth estimates. Those have started to
tick back higher. But I think that
that's the core reason why we've seen
this move in bond yields lower. So it
all depends on the backdrop of the data
in order to tell us where we think that
the bond market will go. I want to talk
to you about policy because they're
debating this bill. You say never has so
little cost so much. Is this going to be
stimulative at all for the economy? We
think very minimally. It's so different
than 2017 where people were seeing a big
step change function difference in
individual tax rates as well as the
corporate tax rate. And you go back to
that time, you had a big uplift in the
earnings line for corporate taxes for
the S&P 500 in being able to drive that
upside in EPS growth. This bill, you
don't get any of that. We would consider
things like accelerated depreciation
being just a continuation of prior
policy. You're seeing the continuation
of prior policy on individual taxes. So
on a net basis, this doesn't do much and
yet it costs so much. So it's basically
just an extension of policy which we've
been talking about for months. What
would be stimulative to this economy
right now? Yeah. Well, you know, the
question is how much has the industrial
policy that you saw over the last couple
of years been stimulative? And those are
the things that you're actually starting
to walk back with the walking back of
some of the IRA provisions. All you have
to do is look at non-residential
construction structures of
manufacturing. They have skyrocketed
over the past couple of years because of
that industrial policy. And that's the
exact thing that they're starting to
walk back from. Payrolls Thursday. Is
bad news good news? Yeah, that is a
that's a a big open question. I think
bad news is good news for the bond
market, but it remains to be seen for
the equity market because if it is such
bad news that we start looking at the
labor market data and saying, "Ooh, this
could be much weaker than expected. We
need to cut GDP growth forecast. We need
to cut earnings growth forecast." That's
when bad news is bad news for equities.
But if it's just a little bit lighter,
then equities likely rally on this hope
that maybe we get rate cuts sooner. Mike
Wilson and Morgan Stanley had this to
say. the equity market isn't going to
wait for the obvious signal in terms of
a more doubbish shift in monetary policy
from the Fed. Stocks will get in front
of it. And that's really the bet for a
lot of the bulls is that any kind of
weakness will be met with cutting and
then some and some sort of Fed response,
policy response that will give some sort
of further fuel to an equity market that
hasn't even been trading on econ
economic fundamentals. I'm sure you saw
Hatius yesterday and the team over at
Goldman bringing forward the call for
the Federal Reserve to September. Now,
that's their first cut call for this
year. Yeah. And that's pulling it up a
month. And the reason why is because
they do believe that there is going to
be this weakness, but also because Fed
officials are telling us. They're saying
we're open for September. We need a
couple of months and that's what they're
going to get by the time September rolls
around. Hey Ross, a few days away. The
estimate in our survey 110K later on
this morning. Look out for jobs. Look
out for jolts. Job openings. That's
going to be important. I know it's a
little bit dated, but just following
that low churn story that you described
earlier in the program, just how frozen
is this labor market? I'm really
concerned about it. I have to be honest,
especially for college graduates and not
just because I've have children who are
getting toward that age in any way,
shape, or form, but you know, you just
wonder if if the market is less dynamic,
do people have less confidence that if
they lose their job, they can go out and
find something else? Do they have less
confidence that they can keep spending
at the rate that Americans like to
traditionally spend? It just calls into
question some of the economic models of
the United States. You certainly see
that in the labor differential at the
conference board consumer confidence
survey. That's for sure. Cameron,
appreciate this. It's good to see you.
Thank you. Cameron Dawson there of New
Edge Wealth looking for higher equity
markets and narrower leadership. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yhara for more. Hey
yara. Hi John. Senate Republican leaders
are looking for votes to pass President
Trump's $3.3 trillion tax and spending
bill. They've been up all night and are
continuing to vote on amendments to the
legislation. Vice President JD Vance is
now at the capital. he would cast a
tie-breaking vote if needed to get the
bill over the finish line. Meanwhile,
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says he'll travel to
Washington next week. According to a
statement from his office, he plans to
meet with President Trump, Vice
President JD Vance, and Commerce
Secretary Howard Lutnik as he looks to
reach a deal on trade. Netanyahu is also
expected to speak to the president about
negotiating a truce to end the war with
Gaza. And China's largest coffee chain
touched down in the US. Lucken Coffee
opened its first US location in New York
City yesterday. The chain surpassed
Starbucks to become the biggest coffee
retailer in China back in 2023. To
celebrate its debut, customers who use
the app can get their first drink for
$1.99. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara later in the hour. Up next,
the morning calls. us Klay Griffin of
Moffett Nathansson as Apple looks beyond
Cutino for help on AI from New York.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Attention on Washington
DC. The president of the United States.
And I hear it's going okay. We'll move
it along. Uh but we'll be back here
pretty early.
[Music]
You've been warning some Republicans not
to go too crazy with the cuts. Are there
parts of the bill or amendments that you
think cut too much? We're going to have
to see the final version. I don't want
to go too crazy with cuts. I don't like
I don't like cuts. Uh there are certain
things that have been cut, which is
good. I think we're doing well. We're
going to have to see. It's very
complicated stuff. Uh great enthusiasm,
as you know. And I think in the end
we're going to have it. What do you
think, Caroline? Yeah, I think about
having such a hard time condemning the
phrase global life.
I think he's terrible. He's a communist.
The last thing we need is a communist. I
said there will never be socialism in
the United States. Now we have a
communist. So I I think he's bad news.
And I think I'm going to have a lot of
fun with him watching him because he has
to come right through this building to
get his money. And don't worry, he's not
going to run away with anything. I think
he's a Frankly, I've heard he's a total
nut job. I think the people of New York
are crazy. If they go this route, I
think they're crazy. We will have a a
communist in the for the first time
really a pure true communist. He wants
to operate the grocery stores, the
department stores. What about the people
that are there? It's I think it's crazy.
What happened to Elon Mus? Who? What
happened to Elon Mus? Nothing. No, he's
upset. that he's lo losing his EV
mandate and we accept you know he's very
upset about things but you know he could
lose a lot more than that I can tell you
right now
Elon Elon can lose a lot more than that
we hope it's going to happen and we're
looking for it to happen sometime next
the hostages. We want to get our
hostages out. We want to get the
hostages
of what beautiful bill doesn't pass. You
have to go through item by item by item
and pass this stuff one at a time or you
can just try again. I think we're going
to get there. It's tough. We're trying
to bring it down, break it down so it's
really good for the country. trying to
get a lot for everybody and it's a big
bill and uh smaller bills would have
been easy but they wouldn't have been as
good. I think it's going to do okay. And
with the alligator out is the idea that
if we deliver that they just get eaten
by an alligator or a snake or something.
I guess that's the concept. This is not
a nice business. I guess that's the
concept. If you you know uh snakes are
fast, but alligators are we're going to
teach them how to run away from an
alligator. Okay? If they escape prison,
how to run away. Don't run in a straight
line. Run like this. And you know what?
Your chances go up about 1%. Okay? Not a
good thing.
What are you going to talk to about next
Monday? Well, he's coming here. We're
going to talk about a lot of things.
We're going to talk about the great
success we had. I mean, we had an
incredible in in Iran. We had an
incredible success like really nobody's
had in many, many years. That was a
precision war strike. And the word
obliteration can now be used because the
Atomic Energy Commission said you can't
even get into the place. It was it was
demolished. It was really demolished. It
was a great brilliant strike. And uh how
to get go forward. We're also going to
talk about Gaza. We want to get the the
rest. We got a lot of hostages back, but
we're gonna talk about that.
I don't know. I We'll have to take a
look. We might have to put Doge on Elon.
You know, you know what Doge is? Doge is
the monster that have that might have to
go back and eat Elon. Wouldn't that be
terrible? He gets a lot of subsidies,
Peter. But, uh, Elon's very upset that
the EV mandate is going to be
terminated. And you know what? When you
look at it, even who wants Not everybody
wants an electric car. I don't want an
electric car. I want to have maybe
gasoline, maybe electric, maybe a
hybrid, maybe someday a hydrogen. If you
have a hydrogen car, it has one problem.
It blows up, you know. So, I'm going to
give that one to Peter. Going to let
Peter test.
Hydrogen cars. And when they blow up,
it's serious. They find you five blocks
away. It's that good. talks going. Are
there any countries we can expect to see
before the July 9th deadline?
Everything's going well. Honestly,
everything this is very complicated
because it's very big. A lot of
different areas. Uh look, the
Republicans have their heart in it. The
Democrats want to they just want to
destroy our country. A Democrat wants to
destroy the country. They won't vote on
it. They don't vote on anything. This is
the biggest tax cut in history. Uh the
big everything everything is the biggest
in history. It's the best bill we've
ever had. We can't get one Democrat
vote.
When do you When do you think you'll get
final? When do you think you'll get
final? Nice guy, Peter. What do you
think? Very nice guy. When do you think
we'll get final passage of the bill?
Hopefully soon. Hopefully today, if we
can final passage when I say final
final, let's take Senate at a time.
Okay. But I think Senate should be today
and we go over to the house. And what
about Macowski? Is there any way to play
safe her? Who knows? You tell me. You
tell me. Is there? Alaska's done so well
with me. There's never been a president
better to Alaska than me. But it doesn't
mean people appreciate it.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
The president of the United States there
just speaking outside of the White House
departing just moments ago with some
comments on a number of issues. We'll
pick out two. One on the tax bill. The
tax bill will hopefully pass today. The
other on Elon Musk. Some really punchy
language on the Tesla CEO captured by
the stock this morning. That name is
down and down hard in the pre-market on
the west coast. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo. Ed, some renewed
tension between the president of the
United States and Elon Musk.
Yeah, the Trump trade can go both ways,
right? We talked about the Trump trade
in November ahead of the election result
being a sort of boon to Tesla stock. And
now in the session, the stock has held
its declines at at I think down 6% in
the pre-market. Uh basically I I'd
reiterate the president was asked the
question would you look at at deporting
Elon Musk and the president answered in
the affirmative uh that he would have to
look at it. Um I find this difficult to
report on and follow John. I mean Elon
has talked in interviews. It was
referred to in Walter Isacson's 2023
biography that Musk had taken the
citizenship in 2002
um in Los Angeles County at the
fairgrounds. Uh so he's a US citizen. So
that that's the kind of volatility of
the relationship that's weighing on the
stock. The the EV and incentives part of
the big beautiful bill. Um it seems
disconnected and separate. And on that
point at least, Elon Musk has been a lot
more consistent. Elon Musk has said and
maintained for some time that he'd be
fine if they did away with those direct
consumer incentives because he's felt
that Tesla has a competitive cost base.
It has pricing power and it would be a
great advantage to Tesla over other
American automakers if those incentives
went away. Obviously, the president's
statements uh not just this morning but
but in in prior weeks and months would
contradict that. Well, Elon Musk is
saying that they should go if they go
away for the EV companies, they should
go away for other parts of energy like
the oil and gas world as well. The
rhetoric is obviously very hot when you
hear the president talking about and
responding to this question of
deportation. He said Doge is the monster
that might have to go back and eat Elon.
What else could the US government do to
hurt Elon Musk or one of his companies?
Well, if you remember the the Thursday
and Friday where the the war of words
took place on X um between the president
Elon Musk, what we tried to do was
calculate the exposure that Elon Inc.
has to federal contracts, right? Because
that was the threat put in place by by
the president. And you know, on the
Tesla side, that's more insulated. there
is some element of incentive or or or
government subsidy beyond um direct
consumer incentives that largely has
supported testing its manufacturing base
on SpaceX. A big chunk of SpaceX's
revenue is contracts with the Department
of Defense uh with NASA um the space
agency. So there's exposure there. Um
but again like I I I kind of bring this
back to DC AMH and the big beautiful
bill you Elon Musk is often inconsistent
but on these issues he would argue he
has been consistent. He's very worried
about the national debt. And in the
campaign when Elon Musk went on the road
for the president, he said, and he has
said since, I supported you in the idea
that you would address this issue. And
he, you know, clearly has an ideological
point of difference with the president.
And I see some headlines from from the
the Treasury Secretary as well on the
idea of of how this bill addresses that
that national debt pile. Yeah, I think
his line this morning was stick to
rockets and I'll do the finance. Ed,
thank you, sir. Sure. Ed Ledllo, thank
you. On the West Coast, more with Ed on
Bloomberg Technology at 11:00 a.m.
Eastern time. No doubt following this
story. If you speak to the analysts on
this story, they'll tell you this is
what we expected, but it's the mood
music around the stock that's driving
this name lower this morning. And the
mood music not great this morning. We're
down by close to 6% in the pre-market.
Up next, we'll catch up with Lina Yuchi
of Tro Price as President Trump sends a
message to Fed chair J Pal. Plus Danny
Burer with your morning movers with more
on Tesla live from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
The opening bow 60 minutes away. Equity
futures negative by 4/10en of 1% near
session lows at the moment on the S&P
following a really decent run of gains
on the S&P 500. Back-to-back all-time
highs coming into Q3 with 60 minutes
until that opening bow. Let's get you
some morning movers and cross over to
Danny Burgerer for more. Hey Danny. Hey
John. The pain is not letting up for
Tesla. Looks like it's at a new low for
the morning down nearly 6%. You were
just speaking with Ed Lello about this.
And we heard from the president moments
ago re-upping this threat saying maybe
we should have Doge look at Elon Musk's
company underlying all this. And Trump
took to Truth Social also to make a
similar type of threat, let's call it,
to remove some of the subsidies for Elon
Musk's businesses after he criticized
the tax bill. So those shares again down
nearly 6%. Also falling in the
pre-market this morning. Warner Brothers
Discovery, those shares down nearly 5%.
According to People Familiar, the
Advanced New House Publishing House,
also controlled by the billionaire New
House family, will be selling about a
$1.1 million stake in Warner Brothers
Discovery. We don't have the reason why
behind it. We know that this is a
company that will be engaged in a
breakup, but New House is the second
biggest shareholder about owns about 8%
of the company. Finally, wrapping things
up with a move to the upside this
morning. The big casinos doing really
well here in the pre-market. Las Vegas
Sands up 5.7%, Win Resorts up 5%. We got
some numbers from Macau of revenue
figures, those coming in 19% for the
month of June. Year-over-year. The
estimate was for just 9%. So gambling
alive and well in that region. It makes
up about half of the revenue of these
companies. So improving this morning,
John. Danny, appreciate the update.
Danny, thank you. A few of the names to
look for going into the opening bell
about 60 minutes from now. Also looking
ahead to Fed J Pal speaking in about 60
minutes time. Let's turn to the Fed as
the president continues his criticism of
the Fed chair. The president sent this
note to the Fed chair. It says, "Jerome,
you are as usual too late. You have cost
the USA a fortune and continue to do so.
you should lower the rate by a lot.
Hundreds of billions of dollars are
being lost and there is no inflation.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg
Mike McKe. Mike, good morning. The
chairman gets an attempt and opportunity
to counter that later. I suspect he uh
will not jump at that opportunity
although I I'm sure it will be offered.
The question is what does he really say?
Now, if he wanted to make an argument
against what the president's press
secretary was saying and what that note
said, it would be very easy to do so,
courtesy of this chart, which uh John
authors produced today for his uh
Bloomberg newsletter. You've got here
the Fed funds rate and the 10-year
yield. The government's uh debt limit,
debt load is based on the longer end of
the curve, not the shorter end of the
curve. But look what happens when the
Fed cuts the short end of the curve. Uh
since September of last year, the
10-year note yield has only gone up. So
lowering the rate didn't do anything to
save the government any money and
probably would not do so as many bond
strategists have told you, we are likely
to see a curve steepening ahead. Now,
what does he say at CRA and what do the
others say? Well, they've all got their
own problems. So, it might be more of a
group therapy session, but I want to
point out this quote from Jay Pal. We're
getting a gradually cooling economy, a
gradually cooling labor market, progress
on inflation, 4% unemployment, 2%
growth. We're kind of getting what we
want to have. Well, that was him one
year ago at CRA. Uh, the situation seems
to have not changed at all in terms of
the economic conditions, but boy, the
outlook sure has changed. So, what does
he say, M? says the economy right now is
solid. Does the data actually speak to
that? No. Well, the data suggests that
the economy has been to this point
relatively solid, but the soft data
suggests that things are starting to
slow down. We have seen a rise in
jobless claims. We're forecast to see uh
real slowing in econ in job growth on uh
Thursday. And uh we are looking at ISM
numbers coming out today and on
Wednesday that would suggest as well
that things are slowing down. The
question is is it slow or is it a fall?
Mike McKe appreciate it. Mike, thank you
sir. Whereas Lisa you've said
continuously cool versus cooling, weak
versus weakening two very different
things at a time when you can expect the
actual number to be a lot lower. What do
you do with just a completely stagnant
labor market? Is this acceptable for an
economy that has come to rely on that
kind of churn? That I think is going to
be a deeper question and one the Fed's
going to talk about more, I'm sure, in
Jackson Hole. Joining us now to talk
about it right now is Lina Yurichi of
Tro Price. Blina, let's talk about it.
The low churn dynamic that Lisa just
gave a nod to. How much longer can we
stick in that kind of situation, that
kind of dynamic?
It's a it's a very interesting dynamic
for the US economy right now. When you
look at the flow of data up to date, you
really see the labor market has loosened
a lot and that's come at the back of
slowing demand for workers. I am not too
concerned. We're not seeing a big pick
up in the unemployment rate, but it does
tell you that if uh the Fed were to base
monetary policy purely on the progress
made on inflation so far and the cooling
in the labor market, I think they would
be much more comfortable signaling
cutting interest rates uh later this
year. But the key here was uh what uh
Mike McKe was alluding to earlier that
the outlook has changed so much and most
of the risks point to uh upside to
inflation and so the Fed has come so far
I think they're very reluctant to undo
all the progress we've made and cut
prematurely and again what matters for
the economy and for the long end of the
curve is if monetary policy is
appropriately set or not and we saw that
in last September when the Fed cut
interest rates by 50 basis points but
the long end went higher and that was
basically telling the Fed that wait a
minute the economy is resilient why are
we cutting interest rates I think the
this is not setting us up for success
for the risks going ahead and I think
the Fed wants uh to avoid that situation
this year there's been a tone shift
though and John alluded to it when he
started talking about the Goldman Sachs
note that came out Yanius and the team
that brought forward rate cuts and see a
greater number of them this year. Fed
members themselves are saying it looks
as though the inflation impact from the
tariffs will be a more of a one-time
shock than they will some sort of
protracted inflationary impulse and you
aren't seeing any kind of inflationary
read through from the labor market that
is cooling if not maybe even showing
signs of cracks. Are you also coming
around to that kind of a conclusion
where it seems to make sense for the cut
for the Fed to cut more and sooner?
So my baseline for for the Fed this year
is two cuts, two 25 basis point cuts
starting in September. Uh I think the
market has fluctuated between one and a
half to three cuts at different points
of the year. The question is can the Fed
bring forward uh interest rate cuts to
the July meeting? I think that's
something that the market is not really
prepared for. I don't think we have
enough time to see a deterioration in
the data that would push the Fed in that
direction. So then what would make uh
the Fed and the market price let's say
three or four cuts for this year? I
think we would need to see a pretty big
increase in the unemployment rate.
Otherwise, even though the labor market
is not a source of inflation right now,
if you have a one or two time shock to
uh inflation, even though it's not
supposed to be persistent, it can decher
inflation expectations. So, I'm looking
at the unemployment rate here because
that's the only way that you get uh the
labor market to push the Fed off the
fence. And when I'm thinking about the
unemployment rate, there are two
components that matter. One is labor
demand uh and hiring and firing. I think
labor demand has cooled significantly,
but we're not seeing mass firing yet.
And then I also think the break even
rate of employment has come down a lot.
The break even rate of employment is
that which keeps the unemployment rate
steady. It doesn't go up. It doesn't go
lower. It's come down a lot because net
migrant flows have decelerated in the
last 12 months or so. And so with weaker
labor supply is much harder to get the
unemployment rate to increase a lot
unless you have mass firing. So I think
we're here at an uneasy equilibrium. And
so for me, it makes a lot of sense for
the Fed to tread carefully. So I feel
comfortable with keeping two interest
rate cuts in my outlook for this year.
What's the potential for upside
surprises later in the year,
particularly once the one big beautiful
bill has passed and once people have
more certainty around what the tariff
outlook looks like?
So in terms of inflation upside, I see
two pivotal moments in the next two to
three CPI reports. I'm looking for signs
that we're getting significant pass
through to consumer prices from higher
tariffs. What we see so far is import
prices have not budged. So that's
telling me that exporters into the US
are not adjusting prices. So then that
leaves domestic firms and consumers as
the agents that are going to bear the
brunt of the tariff increases. We also
have a weaker dollar. So the currency is
not helping us on the inflation front.
So, I'm looking at the CPI reports for
upside risks, and that's the one-off
shock that everybody's talking about.
But then we have the one big beautiful
bill. I think there is a real chance
that this stimulates demand in the near
term. So then the next risk that I see
to inflation is in 2026 from fiscal
policy. I think we learned our lessons
from the supply chain disruptions and
from the fiscal bill postcoid that they
can push inflation higher. I don't think
the size of the shocks right now is as
big as it was back then, but I I do
think it's realistic to expect some
upside to inflation. Look at data this
week very much in focus of price and I
think my microphone has Yeah. So I think
that that uh blurrii of troll price
thank you so much. Right now uh John
will get his mic all set up and let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here's your bloomber brief
anhara. Hi Lisa. Let's start with Tesla
shares. They are down nearly 6% after
President Trump took aim at Elon Musk
over EV subsidies, posting on Truth
Social that the Tesla CEO might quote
get more subsidy than any human being in
history. Just earlier, Trump also said
he would look into deporting Musk who
was born in South Africa beholds US
citizenship. Meanwhile, President Trump
is heading to OO, Florida to visit the
Dade Kier training and transition
airport, now known as Alligator
Alcatraz. It's a new 1,000 bed detention
center being built in the isolated
Everglades airfield west of Miami. Trump
will take a tour of the facility and
then hold a round table with local
officials.
And the pass rate for the second level
of the CFA test soared well above the
decade average in May. According to a
statement from the CFA Institute, 54% of
candidates passed, up from a 39% success
rate for those who took the test back in
November. The May results are higher
than the 10-year average of 45% and the
second highest since 2020. That's your
brief. We fixed that, Yhara. Thank you.
Don't use rechargeable batteries.
They're no good. That's the lesson from
this morning. Is this like an electric
vehicle commentary? That is exactly the
comparison. Oh yeah. Why are we using
rechargeable batteries here? Range
anxiety. Is that sort of a similar
something like that? We'll have that
conversation in a commercial break.
It'll be a good one. Up next on a
program we're setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Colin Martin and Charles
Schwab as investors await remarks from
Fed chair J Pal.
[Music]
equities negative this morning. We're
down by about a third of 1% as we kick
off Q3 and the second half of 25. We're
down half of 1% on the NASDAQ 100. The
single name to watch this morning is
Tesla. The spat between Elon Musk and
the president ramping up once again.
Tesla down through most of this morning
by something like four, five, 6%. As we
count you down to the opening bout, a
few things to look forward to through
the rest of this week. At 9:30 Eastern
time, Fed Chair J Pal and ECB President
Christine Lagard speaking at the ECB
forum in Central Portugal. At 10 a.m.,
ISM manufacturing and jolts data.
Wednesday, the ADP employment report. On
Thursday, US trade balance and another
round of jobless claims, plus the big
one, the payrolls report. And then
before we get to the weekend, we're
hoping to pass that tax bill down in
Washington DC. Joining us now to talk
about it, Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall in
the nation's capital. Tyler, what's the
latest?
Yeah. Hey, John. Well, we heard from
President Trump a short time ago saying
that he thinks they're on track for the
Senate to pass this by today. But at the
moment, they still don't have the votes
as Senate Majority Leader John Thun, our
reporters on the Hill tell us, is uh
convening with some of those key
holdouts to try to strike some sort of
deals here in order to get this done. We
know the White House is going to be
laying on the pressure. administration
official tells us that President Trump
has been in contact with lawmakers and
they've already deployed Vice President
JD Vance to the Hill who would be there
poised and ready to cast a tiebreaking
vote if it does come to that. Now, it
was interesting to hear that President
Trump was asked specifically about one
hold out, Senator Lisa Marowski, whether
or not he knew what it would take to get
her over the finish line. He said that
he didn't, but I can tell you that we're
closely watching one key amendment that
hasn't come up for a vote yet, but would
likely uh pass uh apparent it's looking
like it's getting momentum to pass and
it would likely get Lisa Marowski on
board because it would be more lenient
with the phase out of clean energy tax
credits. While that amendment hasn't
come up yet, John, we can say that the
voterama has officially broken a record.
It is the most amendments ever
introduced in a voterama. We are
currently on amendment number 45. You're
watching Senator Macowski and you're
still counting. We're all watching Elon
Musk at a stock that's still dropping.
Tyler, this tension, where's it come
from this time around? Because this was
widely expected. The president
campaigned on this very issue.
Right. And that was the point that
President Trump himself made in his post
on Truth Social yesterday, saying that
he has been open with Elon Musk that he
has long taken issue with the Clean
Energy Tax Credits under the Inflation
Reduction Act. Now, President Trump
himself said that he thinks that this
was spurred by the EV mandate. But in
his words, he thinks that Musk has a lot
more to lose than that, and he actually
threatened the government subsidies that
Musk's company receives as being
potentially on the chopping block,
saying, quote, "Doge is the monster that
might have to go back and eat Elon."
We're going to have to see how this
actually shakes out here because we know
that is pitting Republicans between
President Trump and the biggest US
political donor in the 2024 cycle. At
Thank you. some real tension. Don't see
it in this bond market though. Tyler
Kendall, thank you. Yields are lower by
just a single basis point. The tenure
still around 420. Let's turn to the bond
market and the Federal Reserve. Colin
Martin of the Swab Center for Financial
Research writing expectations for the
number of Fed rate cuts this year
continues to increase despite the
relatively stable labor market. Colin
joins us now for more. Colin, good
morning. Good morning. Can you explain
that then? Why is that happening? Well,
I think it has to do with the idea that
inflation actually continues to move
lower despite the fact that tariffs are
in place. If we take take away the
tariffs, which we can't do, of course,
but but absent the tariffs, the Fed
probably would have cut already. And if
we look at what's going on in the
inflation data right now, we're still
seeing that that dichotomy between
services and goods, and we are seeing a
slight pickup in the goods inflation,
specifically things coming in from
China, but we're seeing a lot of
disinflation or maybe even deflation on
the services side. So, so the inflation
data suggests that that they could be
cutting absent those tariffs. Um, but
the labor market's still holding up. I
mean, maybe that starts to change soon.
But what I think is really remarkable is
if you look at that unemployment rate,
um, 4% to 4.2%, that very narrow range
for 13 straight months. It's expected to
increase a little bit uh, when we get
the report on Thursday, but if it
doesn't, if it's 42, that's 14 straight
months. The labor market's holding in.
we're seeing, you know, the the low
hiring, low firing, but that's okay for
the economy to kind of continue to chug
along right now. So, that's doing okay.
I think are the concerns in the second
half of the year now that it is July is
what happens next. And will we start to
see the weakness in that labor market
given that the tariffs have to have an
impact somewhere? If they're not passed
along to the consumer, does that impact
margins, which therefore might impact
the labor market? So right now we're
kind of stuck between the rock and a
hard place, but all signs are suggesting
we we get rate cuts later this year. If
we rewind to April 2nd, the narrative
was that tariffs will cause the
inflation rate to surge and deficits
will ignite bond vigilantes with their
pitchforks to never buy US bonds ever
again. Are we saying both of those
things are not true? Well, on the tariff
front, that that's the the confusing
part right now. If you look at Fed
expectations, uh even though there is
kind of uh some vocal members who think
we can be cutting soon, if you look and
dive into the Fed projections, the
median projections suggest inflation
should increase. And even if you look at
that range, the the lowest uh expected
inflation, core inflation rate by the
end of the year is still 2 and a half%.
So there's still an expectation that it
should increase prices, we just haven't
seen it yet. So there's this idea that
maybe people imported goods, you know,
early in advance of this. They haven't
chosen to pass it through. We think
there has to be some sort of impact at
some point. Of course, not the full
effect of the tariffs, but some of it
should get passed along, especially when
you add in the fact that the dollar is
declining. So, you have that working
against you as well. On the bond
vigilantes,
they don't care right now. We've long
held that debts and deficits are not a
key driver of of the direction of
long-term interest rates. We've we've
always focused on monetary policy and
growth and inflation expectations. We
dialed that back a little bit recently
just because our debt continues to grow
and there doesn't appear to be any
interest in Washington to to fix the
situation. Okay, hold on a second. I'm
sorry to jump in here. So, deficits
don't matter. People could just keep on
printing money until a point and then
they do matter. We've been talking about
this all year. When do they matter? I
mean, it's expanding right now and no
one seems to care. Bond deal yields are
actually lower on the day. Yeah, we
don't have the number for when it
matters because there just hasn't been
the relationship. So, how we've been
framing it is because we get this
concern from our clients at Schwab all
the time. We hear about it, especially
with everything going on in Washington.
Is this going to send long-term yields
significantly higher? And we say they're
not. We don't expect the tenure to get
to 6 7 8% anytime soon. What we have
thought, and which actually hasn't been
the case over the past handful of days,
is that maybe it keeps them elevated. We
thought maybe the 10ear goes to that 5%
range or maybe hovers between 4 and a
half to 5%. So instead of falling in
line with potential rate cuts late later
this year, maybe the fact that debt
needs to continue to rise, we need to
attract new buyers to buy those. Maybe
that just kind of keeps them where they
are, but that's been proven wrong over
the past couple of days as well. Would
the bond market push back on a Fed chair
that they don't see as credible, an
extension of Trump, extension of the
White House? You know, that's the we
we've been talking about that a lot.
What happens if we get what the admin
administration's been hinting that they
could do in terms of, you know, shifting
their issuance from coupons to T bills
or a a huge drop in the Fed funds rate.
I mean, we've heard things from 200
basis points to 350 basis points that
would pull short-term rates a lot lower,
I would think. Um, but I think that
could weigh on the long end. We might
see long-term yields fall initially just
based on that supply demand imbalance.
But I'm not talking about what the new
Fed chair might do next year. I'm
talking about the fact that is this
person seen as credible to the
institution. Yeah, that that concerns
us. We worry about a lack of Fed
independence. And we know that can have
bad impacts if the Fed chair and the
committee as a whole are doing things
that are more based on short-term goals
that the administration wants versus
what their dual mandate suggests, price
stability and maximum employment. We do
worry that that can have an effect on
the Treasury market, specifically
long-term treasuries. The dollar market,
we we could see the dollar continue to
decline if that were to happen. So, that
is a worry of ours, and it could send
long-term yields a little bit higher.
Haven't they totally and utterly failed
to hit the price stability side of their
jaw mandate for the last several years.
They have. We're moving in the right
direction, though. Directionally, yes.
But isn't that the ultimate criticism of
them and this Fed chair? I know that
he's celebrated a lot on Wall Street and
by economists that work on Wall Street,
but ultimately he's fallen short or
rather fallen above where he should be
for a long long time now. And if you go
back a few years ago when he delivered
that speech at Jackson Hole, 8 minutes
of pain, then there wasn't any pain and
everyone celebrated. Not sure why they
celebrated. Inflation never went back
down to target. It was never mission
accomplished, was it? Yeah. Well,
technically, no. You're right.
Definitionally, we have not gotten 2%.
If anything though, that calls for the
rate to stay where it is um or arguably
higher. And that's I think where you get
the lack of confidence in the market
because you're right, we're not at that
2% goal yet. Uh they're projecting it to
continue to move higher at the end of
this year if the tariff in fact plays a
role and yet there are these calls for
rate cuts. So, you know, it is tough and
I think if we were to get a Fed a new
Fed chair or just the committee as a
whole and they start cutting rates and
we're still above target, I think that's
a risk. That's the ultimate issue which
is why the criticism to your point is
kind of misplaced of this Federal
Reserve. They cut rates 100 basis points
last year. Rates went up at the long
end. So did mortgage rates. That's the
thing you need to get your teeth into.
Bob Michael JP Morgan was talking about
the same thing earlier this morning. And
it might be the consequence of cutting
certainly as much as uh President Trump
would like. It really goes to this
question of how you trust data because
remember last year the SOM roll was
triggered and it was a head fake and the
Fed took that on its face and it cut
rates significantly and maybe in
retrospect Fedure doesn't think it was a
mistake but it raises a question what
data do you follow to understand that
dual mandate when you're looking at
inflation at a fuzzy moment and when
you're looking at the labor market at a
fuzzy moment the chairman of the Federal
Reserve about 35 minutes away alongside
some of his peers including the ECB
president Christine Lagard and the BOJ
governor awaited Look out for that a
little bit later. Colin Martin of
Charlotte Swab. Thank you, sir. Good to
see you, Colin. Appreciate it. Thank
you. Coming up tomorrow, Brian Nick of
New Edge Wealth, Way Lee of Black
Rockck, Sarah Hunt of Alpine Saxon
Woods, and Jim Karen of Morgan Stanley
from New York City. That does it for us
this morning. Good morning to you all
and thank you for choosing Bloomberg TV.
This was Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]